===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
October 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 167 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Elizabeth J. Kazinskas 
President, Gardner City Council 
ekazinskas@gardner-ma.gov 
 
 RE: Ope
 n Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear President Kazinskas: 
This letter addresses two complaints from Paul DeMeo alleging that the Gardner City 
Council (the “Council”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first 
complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about May 1; you responded on behalf 
of the Council by letter dated May 22; and the complaint was filed with our office for review 
on May 10.
1  The first complaint alleges that five Councilors deliberated outside of a posted 
meeting by coordinating to draft a letter and then sending the letter to the remaining 
Councilors expressing their views on proposed zoning amendments.  The second complaint 
was originally filed with the Council on or about June 6; you responded on behalf of the 
Council by letter dated June 27; and the complaint was filed with our office for review on 
June 29.  The second complaint alleges that the notice for the Council’s June 5 meeting was 
insufficiently specific and that the Council voted on agenda items with little or no discussion. 
 
Following our review, we find that five Councilors violated the Open Meeting Law as 
alleged in the first complaint by sending a letter containing their opinions on proposed zoning 
amendments to the remaining Councilors.  We find that the Council did not violate the Law in 
the other ways alleged.  In reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the 
Council’s responses to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting 
further review.  We also reviewed the April 19 letter from the five Councilors.  Finally, we 
reviewed the notice and minutes for the Council’s June 5 meeting as well as a video recording 
of that meeting.
2 
 
1 All dates refer to the year 2023. 
2 A video recording of the council’s June 5 meeting is available online at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hw4yCL9044I. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
Deliberation Outside of a Posted Meeting 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, except in an emergency, “a public body shall 
post not
ice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, 
Sundays and legal holidays.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, 
as “a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  
G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  The Law defines “deliberation” as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body 
on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  Id.  However, there is a narrow exception to 
the definition of “deliberation” for “the distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling 
information or distribution of other procedural meeting [sic] or the distribution of reports or 
documents that may be discussed at a meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is 
expressed.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18, see also OML 2017-17; OML 2016-172.
3   
 
For the purposes of the Open Meeting Law, a “quo
 rum” is a simple majority of the 
members of a public body.  Id.  A one-way communication from one public body member to a 
quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction constitutes deliberation for purposes of the 
Open Meeting Law, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2016-104; 
OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73. 
 
The
 first complaint alleges that Councilors James Boone, Karen Hardern, Dana Heath, 
Paul Tassone, and Gorge Tyros violated the Open Meeting Law when they coordinated, 
drafted, and sent a letter to the remaining Councilors expressing their views on proposed 
zoning amendments.  We find that coordinating and drafting of the letter did not violate the 
Open Meeting Law, as these five Councilors did not constitute a quorum of the Council.  
However, as the Council has acknowledged, when the five Councilors sent the letter 
containing their opinions on proposed zoning ordinances to the remaining Councilors outside 
of a posted meeting, thus reaching a quorum, they violated the Open Meeting Law.  We note 
that the Open Meeting Law violation was raised by another Councilor and discussed during 
the Council’s May 1 meeting, before this complaint was filed, and the council itself referred 
the matter to the Gardner Law Department for guidance.  Ultimately, the matter at issue was 
withdrawn from consideration; the Council self-reported the violation to the Attorney 
General’s Office; and the Gardner Law Department reminded the Council of its obligations 
under the Open Meeting Law.  We commend the Council for proactively taking these 
corrective measures. 
 
Specificity of the June 5 Meeting Notice and Conduct of Meeting 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires a public body to post notice 48 hours in advance of a 
meeting and include a “listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed 
at the meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics in a meeting 
notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed 
 
3 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
at the meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1)(b).  We generally consider a topic to be sufficiently 
detailed when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the 
anticipated nature of the public body's discussion.  See OML 2015-35.  A public body need 
not list each and every detail about a topic in order to comply with the Law’s requirements.  
See OML 2022-98; OML 2020-132; OML 2019-134.  When reviewing a meeting notice for 
sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone.  See OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what was actually 
discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently detailed to make the public 
aware of the discussion topics.  See OML 2021-22; OML 2020-137; OML 2019-64. 
 
The second complaint alleges that fourteen separate agenda topics out of the 25 
included on the notice for the Council’s June 5 meeting were listed with insufficient 
specificity.  The 25 topics were orders or resolutions for the Council’s approval.  As 
examples, the complaint alleges that several topics failed to specify what the funds were being 
used for or the purpose of the transfers: “11009 - An Order Authorizing $300.09 Payment of 
Prior Year Expenditure for Police Salary Expenditure. (Finance Committee)”; “11011 - An 
Order Transferring $10,500.00 from Building Inspector Department, Department Head 
Salaries to Professional Services Expenditures. (Finance Committee)”; “11003 -An Order 
appropriating the sum of $400,000 from Available Funds- Bond Proceeds Reserved to 
Interest-Outside Debt for the Fiscal Year Beginning July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024. (ln the City 
Council and Referred to Committee of the Whole 5/15/2023).”  The complaint alleges that the 
following topic failed to identify the issue: “11017 - A Notification from City Solicitor John 
Flick Regarding City of Gardner Open Meeting Law (OML) Self Report.”  The complaint 
alleges that some topics failed to identify which enterprise accounts were involved and how 
much would be transferred to each account, for example, “10997 - A Measure Authorizing 
FY2024 Revolving Funds for the City pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 44, 
Section 53E ½. (In the City Council and Referred to Committee of the Whole 5/15/2023).”   
 
 After reviewing the meeting notice in conjunction with the video recording of the 
Counci
l’s June 5 meeting, we are satisfied that the meeting notice satisfied the Open Meeting 
Law’s specificity requirement.  We note that the Council did not engage in substantive 
discussion regarding any of the 25 topics on the agenda on which it took action; in fact, the 
Council approved 25 separate matters—including a reading of the item, sometimes a brief 
introduction or overview by a Councilor, a motion, a second, and a roll call vote on each 
item—in approximately 23 minutes.
  Although including additional detail on the notice on 
some of the items may have been helpful to the public, for example, including a property 
address or location description on item 11016 in addition to the case number, we are satisfied 
that the topics as listed was sufficient to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); see also OML 2013-152.   
 
Finally, the second complaint alleges that the Council engaged in little or no 
discussion before voting on matters during its June 5 meeting.  The Open Meeting Law does 
not require that a public body discuss any particular matter nor that it discuss a matter in any 
particular depth. Rather, the Law requires that if a quorum of a public body discusses a matter 
within its jurisdiction it must do so only during a meeting for which notice was posted and 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
that is open to the public, unless a permissible reason exists to discuss the topic in executive 
session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a); OML 2023-47; OML 2020-75; OML 2017-53. Therefore, 
the Council did not violate the Open Meeting Law by voting on matters without first engaging 
in discussion. 
 
For the
 reasons stated above, we find that the Council did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law.  We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be 
resolved.  This determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with 
our office or the Council.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have 
any questions regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Paul DeMeo (via email: ) 
Gardner City Clerk (via email: tsiriphan@gardner-ma.gov) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
