===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
July 1, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 88 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Karis L. North, Esq.  
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane LLP 
knorth@mhtl.com  
 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney North: 
 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 5, 2025,
1 alleging that 
the Natick Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about February 21, and you responded 
on behalf of the Board by letter dated March 5. The complaint alleges that the notice for the 
Board’s February 19 meeting was insufficient where it included the topic “Appointment of 
Reserve Police Officers” but did not list the names of the individuals being considered for 
appointment. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing 
to list on the notice for its February 19 meeting the individuals to be considered for appointment 
as reserve police officers. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law 
complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and the notice for and minutes of 
the Board’s February 19 meeting.  
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The town of Natick’s official notice posting location is 
its municipal website, http://www.natickma.gov/. The Board posted notice on the municipal 
website for a meeting to be held on February 19. Among other topics, the notice included the 
topic “Appointment of Reserve Police Officers.” The notice did not list the individuals to be 
considered for appointment, but the words “Appointment of Reserve Police Officers” were 
hyperlinked. The hyperlink links to a page on which there is another hyperlink entitled “Memo 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
for [sic] Chief Hicks.” Clicking on this hyperlink downloads a memorandum, dated February 14, 
from Police Chief James Hicks to the Chair of the Select Board requesting that the Board appoint 
as permanent reserve police officers Alec Bauman, John Carr, and Gavin Wilson.  
 
The Board held its February 19 meeting as scheduled. During the meeting, the Board 
considered the three proposed appointees and voted to appoint the individuals as permanent 
reserve police officers, subject to certain requirements.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that, “[e]xcept in an emergency, . . . a public body shall 
post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Meeting notices must include, among other things, a list of the topics that the chair, and any 
other individual authorized to create the notice, reasonably anticipates 48 hours (excluding 
weekends and legal holidays) in advance of the meeting will be discussed at the meeting. See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); OML 2022-206; OML 2020-152.2 The topics for discussion must be listed 
on the notice with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a topic to include 
sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the topic and 
understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70. We have 
consistently explained that the names of applicants for appointment or employment which are 
known 48 hours in advance of a meeting should be included on the meeting notice. See OML 
2022-217; 2019-24; OML 2016-150; OML 2013-163. 
 
 The complaint alleges that the  notice for the Board’s February 19 meeting was 
insufficient where it did not identify the three individuals who would be considered for 
appointment as reserve police officers. The Board asserts that the notice was sufficient because 
the public could learn the names of the three individuals to be considered for appointment by 
clicking the hyperlink on the notice and then downloading the Police Chief’s memorandum. Our 
office has previously explained that “even for public bodies that use a website as their official 
notice posting location, meeting notices should include on the notice itself the level of detail that 
the Open Meeting Law requires, without requiring that users navigate to separate pages or 
documents.” OML 2020-21; accord OML 2019-24, n. 4 (public bodies that post physical notices 
to a bulletin board must include all required information on the meeting notice itself, even when 
the notice is several pages long; it is not acceptable to direct members of the public to additional 
pages on file in the clerk’s office); see also OML 2024-9 (explaining that “a meeting notice itself 
must include the level of specificity that the Open Meeting Law requires, without requiring 
members of the public to search or sift through other documents or sources”); OML 2024-225, n. 
4 (clarifying “that the list of candidates for appointment must be included within the notice 
document itself, . . . it is not sufficient to reference a separate list that is available elsewhere”).
3  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 In OML 2020-21, our office further clarified that with respect to the requirement that the “date and time that a 
meeting notice is posted . . . be conspicuously recorded thereon or therewith,” it continues to be acceptable for a 
public body to list on its website the date and time the notice is posted, rather than pre-printing that information on 
the notice document itself. See 940 CMR 29.03(1)(d); OML 2018-53. This practice allows for an accurate recording 
 
===PAGE 3===
We find that the notice for the Board's February 19 meeting was insufficient where it did
not list the three individuals to be considered for appoint and instead required the public to
navigate to a separate page and document in order to obtain this information. Although we find a
violation here, we commend the Board for linking to the Police Chief's memorandum regarding
the proposed appointees where this provided additional information to the public.
CONCLUSION
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by
failing to list on the notice for its February 19 meeting the individuals to be considered for
appointment as reserve police officers. We order the Board's immediate and future compliance
with the Open Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations may be considered
evidence of an intent to violate the Law.
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions
regarding this letter.
Sincerely,
Flag
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn
Assistant Attorney General
Division of Open Government
CC:
Kathıyn Coughlin, Chair, Natick Select Board
(via email: kcoughlin@natickma.org)
Jamie Erickson, Town Administrator (via email: jerrickson@natickma.org)
Andrew Ghobrial, Town Clerk (via email: aghobrial(@natickma.org)
Patrick Higgins (via email:
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final
order.
of the date and time that a notice is actually posted.