===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
October 6, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 128 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Michael D’Ortenzio, Jr. 
KP Law, P.C. 
 
mdortenzio@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney D’Ortenzio: 
 
This office received a complaint from Catherine Foster on October 26, 2025, alleging that 
the Adams Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-
25.
1  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about August 22, and you 
responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated September 19.2  The complaint alleges that the 
Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it (1) deliberated at a meeting held on January 27 on 
a topic that was not listed on the notice; (2) deliberated outside a posted meeting; and (3) created 
insufficiently specific minutes of the January 27 meeting.   
 
We appreciate the parties’ patience as we reviewed this matter.  Following our review, 
we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it deliberated outside a public 
meeting.  We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint.  In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
for further review of the complaint, and the notice and minutes of the January 27 meeting.  We 
also listened to a recording of the January 27 meeting, provided to us by the complainant.  We 
viewed a recording of a meeting the Select Board held on July 23.
3  On September 25, 2026, we 
interviewed Michael Mach, who was a member of the Board at all times relevant to the 
complaint.4  Finally, we communicated with the complainant via email.   
 
 
 
1 All dates hereinafter are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 Our office granted an extension to that date to respond to the complaint. 
3 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bWRy9TsUyvo.  
4 Michael Mach has since assumed the position of Board Chair.  We refer to Board members’ titles as they were 
during the times relevant to the complaint. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board has five members; thus, three members 
constitute a quorum.  On January 25, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on January 
27.  Notice of the meeting listed two topics: (1) approval of minutes; and (2) applications for a 
special permit and site plan approval for a cannabis delivery business. 
 
The meeting went forward as scheduled.  All five members of the Board attended the 
meeting.  Approximately 32 minutes into the meeting, the Board Chair raised the need to 
schedule a meeting in the coming weeks to discuss “clearing house stuff,” specifically, relative to 
a camping facility on West Road.  The Chair stated that the property owners had not applied for 
a permit and did not attend a Board meeting when they were invited to do so.  One of the owners 
of the property, who happened to attend the January 27 meeting, spoke up.  She explained the 
reasons why she was unable to attend the prior meeting.  The Chair and the owner then engaged 
in a back and forth about whether any permit had been obtained.  Two other members of the 
Board then expressed concern that the matter should not be discussed because it was not listed on 
the meeting notice.  After a few more comments about the property and permitting, the Board 
coordinated scheduling of a meeting.  Approximately 43 minutes into the meeting, the Board 
voted to adjourn.   
 
Following adjournment, multiple people left the meeting room.  Three members of the 
Board (then-Chair David Rhinemiller, then-Vice Chair Michael Mach, and Sandra Moderski)  
remained in the meeting room.  The remaining members revisited the discussion about the 
camping facility on West Road.  A staff member briefly joined the discussion as well.  One of 
the members (believed to be the Chair) maintained that the “big issue” was the existence of 
easements for gas and electric lines.  He expressed skepticism of the owners’ request to waive 
the need for professional drawings because they would not know the location of easements.  
Another member (believed to be Member Moderski) countered that easements likely are 
adequately described in the deed to the property.  These two members agreed that the best course 
of action would be for the owners to “withdraw until they figure out what they want to do.”   
 
The Board approved minutes of the January 27 meeting at its April 28 meeting.  The 
Select Board held a meeting on July 23.  During the public comment portion of the Select Board 
meeting, the owner of the West Road camping facility complained to the Select Board about the 
Planning Board’s handling of permitting for the camping facility.  He also brought to the Select 
Board’s attention Planning Board deliberations that occurred after adjournment of the January 27 
meeting. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it continued to deliberate after 
the January 27 meeting adjourned. 
 
As an initial matter, we address the timeliness of the allegation that the Board deliberated 
outside a meeting.  The Open Meeting Law requires that complaints be filed within 30 days of 
the alleged violation, or if the alleged violation could not reasonably have been known at the 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
time it occurred, then within 30 days of the date it should reasonably have been discovered.  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(4).  The complainant could not reasonably have 
discovered that the Board deliberated after adjournment of the January 27 meeting until the issue 
was raised during public comment at the July 23 Select Board meeting.  Because the complaint 
was filed within 30 days of the July 23 Select Board meeting, the complaint was filed timely as 
to this allegation. 
 
Except when convened in executive session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open 
to the public.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a).  A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation 
by a public body with respect to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication 
through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on 
any public business within its jurisdiction . . . .”  Id.  The Open Meeting Law does not require 
that a formal statement be made to begin or conclude a meeting.  See OML 2018-90; OML 2018-
37.5  However, where a public body takes steps to close a meeting, such as a vote to adjourn, the 
public body should not continue to deliberate after those steps are completed.  See OML 2018-
90; OML 2016-140. 
 
Based upon the information available to us, including an audio recording that captured 
the discussion which transpired following adjournment of the January 27 meeting, we find that 
the Board deliberated outside a noticed meeting.  Three members of the Board and one staff 
member resumed a discussion of the West Road camping facility after the meeting had adjourned 
and two members of the Board had left the room.  Two Board members are clearly audible on 
the audio recording of the post-adjournment discussion.  The third member, Vice Chair Mach, 
contributed little, if anything, to the discussion.  Although the audio recording does not capture 
any statement by Vice Chair Mach, we find that he was present during the discussion.  His 
vehicle was undergoing repairs at the time; he rode to and from the meeting with Member 
Moderski, who remained after the meeting adjourned.  Because a quorum of the Board discussed 
the West Road camping facility after the January 27 meeting adjourned, we find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law.
6 
 
II. We decline to review the remaining allegations of the complaint. 
 
To the extent that the complaint alleges that the notice of the January 27 meeting was 
insufficiently specific or that minutes of that meeting were insufficiently detailed in regard to 
topics discussed during the noticed meeting itself, such allegations are untimely.   
 
 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the-
open-meeting-law. 
6 During our interview of Vice Chair Mach, he recalled riding with Member Moderski while his vehicle was 
undergoing repairs around the time of the January 27 meeting.  He also acknowledged that members sometimes 
chatted after meetings about matters that fell outside of the Board’s jurisdiction, such as family.  Absent sufficient 
evidence to the contrary, we credit a public body’s account of the facts.  See OML 2023-121; OML 2017-93; OML 
2016-141.  However, the audio recording established that the Board did deliberate after the meeting adjourned, 
notwithstanding Vice Chair Mach’s memory of the meeting.  Vice Chair Mach clearly understands the prohibition of 
deliberating outside a posted meeting; we do not attribute any deceptive intent in Vice Chair Mach’s stating that no 
deliberation occurred at a meeting that took place 20 months prior to our interview.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
A public body must post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours in advance, not 
including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Notices must include “a 
listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.”  Id.  The 
list of topics must have sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b).  When reviewing a meeting notice for 
sufficiency, unless it is clearly insufficient on its face, we do not review a meeting notice 
standing alone.  See OML 2024-174; OML 2015-109; OML 2014-155.  Rather, we review what 
was actually discussed at the meeting to determine if the notice was sufficiently specific to make 
the public aware of the discussion topics.  See OML 2026-30; OML 2020-137; OML 2019-64.   
 
Pursuant to the Open Meeting Law, a complaint must be filed with the public body within 
30 days of the alleged violation.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b).  Complaints alleging violations that take 
place during an open session can reasonably be discovered at the time they occur.  See OML 
Declination 11-27-2023 (Wellfleet Selectboard); OML 2022-128; OML 2012-52.  The complaint 
was filed on August 22, almost seven months after the meeting.  Therefore, any allegation 
regarding the sufficiency of notice is untimely.  Although we decline to review this allegation, 
we caution the Board that identifying topics as “clearing house” or “housekeeping” matters does 
not insulate them from the notice requirements of the Open Meeting Law. 
 
To the extent that the complaint alleges that minutes of the January 27 meeting were 
insufficiently detailed, we decline to review that allegation as well.  When a public body 
approves minutes during an open session, any complaints regarding the timely creation, 
approval, sufficiency, or accuracy of those minutes must be filed within 30 days of the meeting 
during which they were approved.  See OML 2026-19; OML 2025-84; OML 2022-188.  The 
minutes of the January 27 meeting were approved at the Board’s April 28 meeting.  As the 
complaint was not filed until August 22, close to four months after the meeting, the allegation of 
insufficiently detailed minutes is untimely.   
 
To the extent that the complaint alleges that the Board should have posted notice of the 
deliberation that occurred after adjournment of the noticed meeting, that allegation is subsumed 
within our finding that the Board deliberated outside a noticed meeting.  We find a violation as 
explained in section I above precisely because the deliberation did not occur during a noticed 
meeting. 
 
To the extent that the complaint alleges that a summary of the post-adjournment 
discussion should have been included in the minutes of the posted January 27 meeting we 
decline to review that allegation.  When the Board met after adjournment of the noticed meeting 
on January 27, it essentially held a separate meeting, albeit one for which notice was not posted.  
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate minutes of all 
meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, the members 
present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of documents and other 
exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken at each meeting, including 
the record of all votes.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  As the post-adjournment discussion occurred 
outside of the posted meeting of January 27, the Open Meeting Law did not require that minutes 
of the posted January 27 meeting include a summary of those deliberations.  
 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
when it deliberated outside a noticed meeting after adjourning the meeting of January 27.  We 
order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We also order that within 
the next 30 days the Board amend the minutes of the January 27 meeting to include a summary 
of the discussion that occurred after the meeting was adjourned and to certify to our office that it 
has done so.  The amended minutes should make clear that the discussion occurred after 
adjournment.
7  See OML 2018-90. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Chair, Adams Planning Board, (via email: akerwood@town.adams.ma.us )  
Bri Hantman, Executive Assistant to Adams Town Administrator (via email: 
bhantman@town.adams.ma.us) 
Adams Town Clerk (via email: hmeczywor@town.adams.ma.us) 
Catherine Foster (via email:  
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The  
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
7 Although the post-adjournment discussion, strictly speaking, was a meeting in and of itself, it would best serve the 
public to have those discussions captured in the minutes of the posted January 27 meeting.  
