===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
November 23, 2022 
 
       OML 2022 – 209 
 
 
Edward M. Pikula, Esq.  
One Financial Plaza 
1350 Main Street, Suite 312 
Springfield, MA 01103 
 
By email only: empikula@outlook.com 
 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Pikula: 
 
This office received a complaint from Mark Gold on May 9, 2022, alleging that the 
Hampden County Regional Retirement Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 7, 2022, and 
you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated April 25, 2022.
1  The 
complaint alleges that the Board failed to state the reason for the executive session held on April 
6. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Commission’s 
response to the complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We 
also reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board meetings held on 
April 6 and April 25, and the open session minutes of the Board meeting held on May 4.   
 
FACTS 
 
On April 4, the Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on April 6 at 10:00 A.M.  
The notice listed 25 topics, one of which was “Legal Update.”  The notice did not include an 
Executive Session.  
 
On April 5, Board legal counsel Alfredo Vivenzio received an email from an attorney 
whose client had previously filed an offset claim regarding benefit payments related to an 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2022. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
accidental disability pension.  Specifically, the email advised that the individual agreed to settle 
the particular claim in exchange for a specified amount of money. 
 
The April 6 meeting was held as planned and the Board discussed the noticed open 
session topics.  During “Legal Update,” the Board received an update from Attorney Vivenzio on 
two pending legal cases - “the Soulier case and Sagendorph appeal.”  According to the open 
session minutes, after discussing the open session topics, Attorney Vivenzio “requested a 
motion” to enter “executive session to discuss legal issues.”  Board member Patrick O’Neil 
“made a motion to go into executive session” which was seconded by Board member Robert 
Taylor.  The executive session minutes state that Attorney Vivenzio “requested a motion to enter 
into executive session to discuss legal issues and the return into regular session to adjourn.  Mr. 
O’Neil made a motion to have Atty Vivenzio discuss legal issues and Mr. Taylor seconded the 
motion.”  The Board then approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive 
session. 
 
During the executive session, the Board discussed whether to resolve the offset claim and 
settle the matter for a specified amount of money.  The Commission unanimously voted by roll 
call to authorize Attorney Vivenzo to reach a settlement agreement.  At the conclusion of the 
executive session, the Board reconvened in open session and adjourned.  
    
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberation and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Board of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, with some exceptions.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 21(a).  A public 
body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes enumerated in the 
Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session, that a majority of 
members of the body have voted to go into executive session, that the vote of each member is 
recorded by roll call and entered into the minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether 
the open session will reconvene at the conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
2   
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with respect 
to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Commission of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Commission of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  When convening 
in executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body must identify the litigation matter it will 
discuss, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2019-163; 
OML 2016-43; OML 2016-12.  
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announcement during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also District 
Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is the only 
notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and the only 
way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”).   
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to state a proper purpose for the executive 
session held on April 6.  Here, the Board convened in executive session on April 6 to discuss a 
settlement agreement even though the notice for that meeting did not include an executive 
session topic.  A public body may discuss a topic not listed on a meeting notice if the topic was 
not anticipated by the chair 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  See OML 2017-2; OML 2013-
87.  We find that the Board could not have reasonably anticipated discussion of the settlement 
matter 48 hours prior to the meeting where Attorney Vivenzio only became aware that the 
individual wished to settle his claim on April 5, the day before the meeting.  See OML 2017-67.  
Therefore, the Board was permitted to discuss the unanticipated topic during its April 6 meeting, 
even though the topic was not included on the meeting notice.    
  
While a public body is not required to provide the specific statutory citation of the 
executive session it plans to convene under, the public body must at least provide a sufficient 
description of the executive session purpose.  See OML 2016-95.  A public body’s discussions 
with its counsel do not automatically fall under Purpose 3 or any other purpose for holding an 
executive session.  See OML 2022-9; 2020-71.  We find that the Board violated the Open 
Meeting Law by failing to state with sufficient specificity the purpose for the executive session 
and by failing to state all subjects that could have been revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the April 6 executive session was called.  See OML 2015-117.  The Board has 
not demonstrated why disclosing that it was discussing a particular litigation matter would have 
compromised the executive session purpose.  In fact, the Board disclosed the specific litigation 
matter to the complainant in response to the complaint.   
 
Finally, we remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law specifically provides that the 
chair must state the purposes for executive session.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3) (“before the 
executive session, the chair shall state the purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects 
that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the executive session was 
called”).  However, it is permissible for the chair to explicitly delegate the responsibility for 
making the required statement to another individual such as legal counsel.  See OML 2019-34; 
OML 2016-124 (it is not a violation where the chair specifically asked legal counsel to make the 
statement on his behalf).  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board  violated the Open Meeting Law 
where the stated executive session purpose did not offer the public an understanding of the 
anticipated executive session discussions during the April 6 meeting.  We order the Board’s 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution that similar future 
violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
Kerry Anne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Mark Gold – By email only: mgold@longmeadow.org 
Hampden County Regional Retirement Board c/o Executive Director Karen Martin – By 
email only: kmartin@hcrb.org 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
