===PAGE 1===
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
February 14, 2018 
OML 2018-18 
Rosemary Crowley, Esq. 
Doherty, Wallace, Pillsbury & Murphy, P.C. 
One Monarch Place, Suite 1900 
Springfield, MA 01144 
TEL: (617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Crowley; 
This office received a complaint from Jack Arute, dated November 24, 2017, alleging 
that the Hampden Planning Board (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on October 23, 2017, and the Board 
responded by letter dated November 22, 2017. In his complaint, Mr. Arute alleges that the Board 
misled members of the public by stating that a topic would not be discussed during a meeting. 
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board's response, and the 
request for further review filed with our office. We also reviewed the notice of a Board meeting 
held on October 11, 2017. Finally, we spoke with the complainant by telephone on January 10, 
2018, and we spoke with the Board's legal counsel by telephone on January 30, 2018.1 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On October 4, 2017, the Board posted notice of a meeting 
to be held on October 11, 2017. The notice listed, among other topics, a joint discussion with the 
Hampden Board of Assessors described as follows: "Discussion Regarding Recreational 
Development Overlay." On October 5, 2017, the complainant delivered a hand-written note to 
the Board's administrative assistant asking to be added to the October 11, 2017 meeting agenda. 
His note indicated that he wished to discuss the recreational development overlay already on the 
meeting notice.2 Because of the assistant's schedule, the note was discovered on October 10, 
2017, the day before the meeting at issue. The assistant contacted the Board chair, who declined 
to add the complainant to the agenda. 
1 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
2 While the recreational overlay was already listed on the notice, it appears that the complainant wished to be listed 
separately on the notice and to speak on the project in relation to certain correspondence from September 2017. 
o 
===PAGE 2===
The Board held the October 11, 2017 meeting as planned, however the Board of 
Assessors was unexpectedly unable to attend. Because of this change of plans, the Board chair 
stated at the beginning of the meeting that the Board would not discuss the issue of the 
recreational overlay. Approximately thirty members of the public left the meeting room. The 
complainant requested to speak and informed the Board that he wished to comment on the 
recreational overlay issue. The complainant alleges that the chair responded by yelling profane 
comments at him. Ultimately, the complainant was allowed five minutes to speak, and the Board 
exchanged comments on the project with the complainant. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies post notice of all meetings at least 48 
hours in advance, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). 
Meeting notices must contain the date, time, and place of the meeting and a listing of topics that 
the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting. Id. Topics must be described 
with sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting. 940 CMR 29.03(1 )(b). 
Here, the complaint alleges that the chair misled the public by stating at the beginning of 
the October 11, 2017 meeting that the recreational overlay would not be discussed, before 
eventually allowing it. As a consequence, the complaint alleges that the members of the public 
who left were deprived of hearing the exchange that took place. Because the chair anticipated 
that the Board of Assessors would be present during the October 11, 2017 meeting, the issue of 
the recreational overlay appeared on the meeting notice.3 When it became known prior to the 
meeting that the Board of Assessors could not attend, the chair updated the public as to what he 
anticipated would be discussed during the meeting. The issue of the recreational overlay 
reentered the meeting when the complainant asked to be recognized.4 Because the chair listed 
anticipated topics on the notice prior to the meeting, and because the chair updated members of 
the public to what he anticipated would be discussed, we discern no error in how the Board 
conducted the October 11, 2017 meeting. Accordingly, we find no violation with respect to the 
allegations in this complaint. 
3 The Board seems to suggest that the complainant could not be added to the October 11, 2017 agenda because the 
chair had not anticipated his comments 48 hours in advance of the meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires that all 
topics anticipated by the chair appear on the meeting notice. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). However, where a topic arises 
for the first time less than 48 hours prior to a meeting, the body may still discuss it. See OML 2016-141. In such 
circumstances, the body should update the meeting notice to reflect the addition of the new, not previously 
anticipated topic. The Attorney General encourages the postponement of discussions where topics may be 
controversial or of significant public interest. 
4 To the extent that the complaint alleges that the chair violated the Open Meeting Law by making profane 
comments to the complainant, we note that this allegation, even if true, would not constitute a violation of the Open 
Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. As such, we do not review it. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant 
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). Nevertheless, we note that the Attorney General encourages civility 
at all meetings of public bodies. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
Sincerely, 
Kevin W. Manganaro 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Jack Arute 
Hampden Planning Board 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
3 