===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
 
       September 15, 2026 
 
       OML 2026 – 119 
 
 
Carolyn M. Murray, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C. 
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only: cmurray@k-plaw.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Murray: 
 
This office received a complaint from Sarah Nichols on July 6, 2026, alleging that the 
Wellfleet Selectboard (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about May 5, 2026, and you responded 
to the complaint, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated May 20, 2026.  The complaint alleges 
that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to respond to a request for executive 
session minutes within the 10 days required by the Law, and by failing to review the requested 
minutes at its next meeting following the request. 
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action, in accordance with 
940 CMR 29.07(2)(a), and find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s 
response to the complaint, the complaint requesting further review, and the notice of the Board 
meeting held on May 7, 2026. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that a public body “create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a).  The Open Meeting 
Law further provides that “minutes of an open session, if they exist and whether approved or in 
draft form, shall be made available upon request by any person within 10 days.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 
22(c).  When a public body receives a request for executive session minutes, the body must also 
respond to the request within 10 days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(2).  If at the time of the request 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
the public body has not recently performed a periodic review of the requested minutes, as 
provided by G.L. c. 30A, § 22(g)(1), the body must perform the review and release the non-
exempt minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the body’s next meeting or 30 days, 
whichever occurs first.  Id.  If this review is required, the public body must still respond to the 
requester within 10 days of receiving the request, informing the requester that the public body 
will conduct a review to determine whether the minutes may be withheld or must be released.  
See OML 2023-62; OML Declination 10-15-23 (Hubbardston Select Board).
1 
 
Here, on April 24, 2026, the complainant sent an email to the Board and then-Board 
Chair John Wolf2 requesting “copies of the executive session minutes from the Selectboard 
meetings held on October 7, 2025, and December 23, 2025.”  That same day, then-Board Clerk 
Josh Yeston
3 responded acknowledging the request, writing, “Thank you for sharing. The 
Selectboard had [sic] received your letter.”   
 
During a meeting held on May 7, 2026, the Board reviewed six sets of executive session 
minutes and voted to release the requested minutes.  Executive session minutes were provided to 
the complainant on May 13, 2026.  We acknowledge that the Board initially replied to the 
complainant’s request within 10 days acknowledging receipt.  However, Mr. Yeston’s response 
was ambiguous, simply suggesting that the request had been received and did not inform the 
complainant that it would conduct a review of the executive session minutes.  See OML 2017-
159; OML 2015-130.  Moreover, even though the Board’s next meeting following the April 24, 
2026, request was the next day, it did not conduct a review of the requested executive session 
minutes at that meeting.  Rather, the Board reviewed the executive session minutes at its meeting 
on May 7, 2026, which was the sixth meeting after receiving the request.  Therefore, we find that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by not properly responding to a request for or timely 
reviewing executive session meeting minutes.  We order no further remedial action as the Board 
has since reviewed and released the requested executive session minutes. 
 
In her request for further review, the complainant alleged that the Board also failed to 
provide a copy of the complaint and a copy of its response to the Attorney General.  We 
generally decline to review an allegation that was not included within the original complaint filed 
with the public body because the public body has not had an opportunity to respond to the 
allegation.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(3).  We find that this allegation was not 
clearly raised in the original complaint and thus we do not review its merits.  However, we 
remind the Board that the Open Meeting Law requires that within 14 business days of receipt of 
a complaint, the public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial 
action, if appropriate; send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial 
action taken; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint, the response and a 
description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
 
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations and declination letters may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 
2 At the time the request was made, John Wolf was Chair of the Board.  Mr. Wolf is still a member of the Board but 
no longer serves as Chair. 
3 Mr. Yeston is currently Chair of the Board. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to properly respond to a request for executive session minutes within 10 days and by 
failing to review the minutes at its next meeting as required by the Law.  We order the Board’s 
immediate and future compliance with the Law and caution that similar future violations could 
be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Sarah Nichols –   
 Wellfleet Selectboard – By email only: BOS@wellfleet-ma.gov  
Wellfleet Town Clerk Jennifer M. Congel – By email only: jennifer.congel@wellfleet-
ma.gov 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
