===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
February 25, 2013 
OML 2013-19 
Benjamin M. Coyle, Esq. 
Bacon Wilson, P.C. 
33 State Street 
Springfield, MA 01103 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Coyle: 
This office received a complaint from Tracy Cesan, dated December 26, 2012, alleging 
that the Southwick Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25. This complaint was originally received by the Board on November 26, 2012. 
We received your response on behalf of the Board in a letter dated December 14, 2012. 
After reviewing the complaint and the Board's response, we have decided to resolve this 
complaint by informal action  in accordance with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a). We find that the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
The complaint alleges that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law when it discussed, 
in open session, an ongoing investigation of complaints filed by Ms. Cesan. The Open Meeting 
Law states that a public body may  meet in executive session for any of ten enumerated purposes. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a) (emphasis added). One such purpose, Purpose 1, allows a public body to 
enter into executive session to discuss "complaints or charges brought against, a public officer, 
employee, staff member or individual." Id. at §21(a)(1). However, the Open Meeting Law never 
requires that a public body discuss any matter in executive session. See  OML 201140. 1  
Therefore, the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by discussing matters in open 
session that may have been appropriate for executive session. We provide no opinion as to 
whether any other statute may have required that they discuss this matter behind closed doors. 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found on the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviago/openmeeting. 
1 
0 
===PAGE 2===
As a final matter, we note that in her December 26, 2012 complaint to our office, Ms. 
Cesan also alleges that she was denied the right to be present during the Board's executive 
sessions during which it discussed complaints against her. The Open Meeting Law states that 
"prior to the filing of a complaint with the attorney general, the complainant shall file a written 
complaint with the public body, setting forth the circumstances which constitute the alleged 
violation and giving the body an opportunity to remedy the alleged violation." G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(b). It does not appear that this violation was alleged in the initial complaint filed with the 
Board. Therefore, we decline to investigate this allegation as the Office of the Attorney General 
will not investigate allegations raised for the first time in a complaint filed with the Office. 
While we decline to review the merits of this complaint, we remind the Board that if it intends to 
enter into executive session under Purpose 1, the individual who is subject of the executive 
session must be provided with 48 hours written notice of the executive session and be given the 
opportunity to be present during the executive session. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1). 
We now consider this matter closed. Please be advised that closing this complaint does 
not resolve any other complaints that are currently pending with this office, the Board, or the 
Town. Please contact our office at 617-963-2540 if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
nathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Tracy Cesan 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one days of receipt of this order. 
2 