===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
       November 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 - 180 
 
 
Matthew Campbell, Esq. 
The Law Office of Matthew Campbell 
114 West Foster Street 
Melrose, MA 02176 
 
By email only: mattcam2007@comcast.net 
 
RE:  Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Campbell: 
 
This office received two complaints from Brian DeLacey on November 30, 2022, 
alleging that the Mystic Valley Regional Charter School Board of Trustees (the “Board”) 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The first complaint was originally filed 
with the Board on August 31, 2022; the second complaint was originally filed with the Board on 
September 1, 2022; and you responded to both complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letter 
dated November 10, 2022, following an extension of time granted by this office.  The complaints 
allege that the Board posted a notice with insufficient specificity, failed to conduct the 
procedural requirements prior to convening in executive session, and entered into executive 
session for an improper purpose for a meeting held on August 29, 2022.   
 
We appreciate the patience of the parties while we reviewed these matters.  Following 
our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to state on the 
meeting notice the specific litigation matter that would be discussed during the executive session 
on August 29, 2022.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the other 
ways alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
response to the complaints, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  
We also reviewed the notice and open and executive session minutes of the Board meeting held 
on August 29, 2022. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Board posted notice of a meeting to be held on August 
29, 2022, at 7:00 P.M.  The notice listed an executive session “to consider the purchase, 
exchange, lease or value of real property and legal matters, the discussion or disclosure of which 
in an Open meeting may be detrimental to the school’s negotiating position”; “to discuss strategy 
with respect to existing and potential litigation the discussion or disclosure of which may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position if it occurred in an open meeting”; and 
“Personnel.”   
 
The August 29, 2022, meeting was held as planned and the Board convened in open 
session.  Board Chair George Warren then moved to enter executive session to discuss “the 
purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property and discussing strategy with respect to 
existing and potential litigation.  The discussion of either of these topics could have had a 
detrimental effect on litigation or bargaining position if it occurred in an open meeting.”  The 
Board approved a unanimous vote by roll call to convene in executive session and announced 
that it would not return to open session.  The Board has not publicly released the minutes of the 
executive session; therefore, we do not recount their content in detail here.  However, after our in 
camera review of the minutes, we note that the Board discussed strategy with respect to potential 
litigation against the School relating to the dress code policy and discussed the purchase of 
several properties for expansion of school facilities.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Law requires that all meetings of a public body be 
conducted in an open session, unless an executive session is convened.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), 
21(a).  A public body may enter an executive, or closed, session for any of the ten purposes 
enumerated in the Open Meeting Law provided that it has first convened in an open session 
stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the purpose for which the 
executive session was called, that a majority of members of the body have voted to go into 
executive session, that the vote of each member is recorded by roll call and entered into the 
minutes, and the chair has publicly announced whether the open session will reconvene at the 
conclusion of the executive session.  G.L. c. 30A, §§ 21(a), (b); see also OML 2014-94.
1 
 
Executive session topics must be described, both in the meeting notice and in an 
announce
ment during open session, in as much detail as possible without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3); see also 
District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. Sch. Comm. of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009) (“[a] 
precise statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary ... because that is 
the only notification given the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper”). 
   
 
1 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
One permissible reason to convene in executive session is “to discuss strategy with 
res
pect to collective bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on 
the bargaining or litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares.”  G.L. c. 30A,   
§ 21(a)(3) (“Purpose 3”).  This purpose offers the narrow opportunity to discuss strategy with 
respect to litigation that is pending or clearly and imminently threatened or otherwise 
demonstrably likely; the mere possibility of litigation is not sufficient to invoke Purpose 3.  See 
Doherty v. School Committee of Boston, 386 Mass. 643, 648 (1982); Perryman v. School 
Committee of Boston, 17 Mass. App. Ct. 346, 352 (1983); OML 2012-05.  When convening in 
executive session pursuant to Purpose 3, a public body should identify the litigation matter to be 
discussed, if doing so will not compromise the lawful purpose for secrecy.  See OML 2016-12; 
OML 2013-97.  Although we generally defer to a public body’s assessment of whether the 
inclusion of such information would compromise the purpose for an executive session, a public 
body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis for that claim if challenged.  See OML 
2015-14. 
 
Another permissible reason for a public body to convene in executive session is “to 
cons
ider the purchase, exchange, lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open 
meeting may have a detrimental effect on the negotiating position of the public body.”  G.L. c. 
30A, § 21(a)(6) (“Purpose 6”).  Purpose 6, narrowly construed, permits a public body to meet in 
executive session to protect its negotiating position when seeking to purchase, exchange, or lease 
real estate, or to discuss the value of real estate where it has a negotiating position relative to that 
property.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6); Allen v. Committee of Selectmen of Belmont, 58 Mass. 
App. Ct. 715, 719-721 (2003); OML 2019-143; OML 2016-50.  Purpose 6 is intended to 
preserve confidentiality in negotiating the value of the property to be purchased, exchanged or 
leased to avoid putting the public body at a disadvantage in its negotiations for the property.  See 
District Atty. for the Plymouth Dist. v. Board of Selectmen of Middleborough, 395 Mass. 629, 
633 n.5 (1985); OML 2019-10; OML 2016-50.  When noticing an executive session pursuant to 
Purpose 6, a public body must identify the property to be discussed if doing so would not 
compromise the purpose for which the executive session was called.  See OML 2013-97; OML 
2012-52; OML 2010-2.  Here, too, a public body must be able to demonstrate a reasonable basis 
for a claim that identifying the property to be discussed would compromise the purpose for the 
executive session if challenged.  See OML 2021-142. 
 
The complaints allege th
 at the executive session topics listed on the August 29, 2022, 
meeting notice lacked sufficient specificity where the notice did not include the specific 
litigation matter or identify the property to be discussed.  Here, the notice stated that the Board 
would discuss strategy with respect to “existing and potential litigation” and the Board states that 
“disclosure of the nature of the threatened suit” and “its participants . . . could have negatively 
impacted a negotiation position that the School had previously achieved.”  We are not persuaded 
that including the specific case name of the litigation matter would have compromised the 
Board’s litigating position and find that identifying such information would have better provided 
the public with an understanding of the precise subject of the executive session discussion.  See 
OML 2018-11.  However, we find that identifying on the notice the properties under discussion 
would have compromised the Board’s negotiating position and therefore the Board did not 
violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting a description of the properties discussed under 
Purpose 6.  See OML 2015-44; OML 2014-145. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
With respect to the third executive session topic – “Pers onnel” – that was listed on the 
notice, we find that the Board did not discuss any matters in executive session on August 29, 
2022, related to this topic.  Therefore, because the Board did not discuss this topic, we find no 
violation with respect to the sufficiency of the executive session topic listed on the notice.  When 
a public body does not actually deliberate on a noticed topic, the public body cannot violate the 
Open Meeting Law with respect to that topic, even if it would have been insufficiently detailed 
had the public body proceeded with its deliberation.  See OML 2019-61; OML 2015-63; OML 
2014-81.  Nevertheless, we remind the Board that “personnel” is not an appropriate reason to 
enter executive session.  While several of the delineated purposes under the Law exist to allow 
bodies to deliberate on personnel related issues, “personnel” by itself is not a statutorily 
authorized purpose to enter executive session.  See OML 2011-9.    
 
After reviewing the executive session minutes, we are satisfied that the Board’s 
disc
ussions in executive session were appropriate under both Purpose 3 and Purpose 6.  
Specifically, we find that discussions during the August 29, 2022, executive session meeting 
pertained to litigation strategy and therefore the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by 
meeting under Purpose 3.  See OML2021-145.  Although the litigation matter related to the 
School’s dress code policy, we find that the Board did not otherwise discuss the dress code 
policy in executive session.  In addition, we find that discussions during the executive session 
pertained to the acquisition of certain real property and the identification of the potential entities 
to approach regarding buying real property and were appropriate for executive session under 
Purpose 6.  See OML 2022-119; OML 2018-73 (finding no violation where the public body 
discussed the potential acquisition of alternate elementary school sites in executive session under 
Purpose 6).  Because we are persuaded that having these discussions in open session may have 
had a detrimental impact on the litigating and negotiating position of the Board, we find that the 
Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by convening in executive session on August 29, 
2022. 
 
Finally, the complaint alleges that the Board failed to follow the procedural requirements 
prior
 to convening in executive session by blending “two executive session agenda items into 
one vote.”  Here, the Board convened in open session, approved a vote by roll call to enter 
executive session, and announced that it would not resume in open session but would adjourn 
following its executive session.  While we agree that the Board took only one roll call vote to 
enter executive session to discuss separate topics under Purpose 3 and Purpose 6, the Open 
Meeting Law does not specifically require that a public body take separate votes for each topic to 
be discussed or each executive session purpose on which it relies.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b).  We 
find that the Board complied with the required procedural steps prior to convening in executive 
session on August 29, 2022, and therefore did not violate the Open Meeting Law in this way.  
See OML 2018-73. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
We find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to state on the meeting 
notice the specific litigation matter that would be discussed during the executive session on 
August 29, 2022.  We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law by omitting on 
the August 29, 2022, meeting notice the properties under discussion in executive session or by 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
meeting in executive session to discuss litigation strategy or the acquisition of real property.  We 
order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we caution 
that similar future violations may be considered evidence of intent to violate the law.   
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
       Sincerely, 
 
 
 
       KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
       Assistant Attorney General 
       Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc:   Brian DeLacey – By email only:   
Mystic Valley Regional Charter School Board of Trustees c/o Chair George Warren
 – By 
email only: gdwarren.lawfirm@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
