===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE  OF THE  ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
May 30, 2012 
OML 2012-39 
Richard Hood, Chair 
Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee 
170 Chestnut Street 
Amherst, MA 01002 
Re: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Hood: 
This office received a complaint on December 8, 2011 from Larry Kelley, alleging that 
the Amherst-Pelham Regional School Committee (the "Committee") violated the Open Meeting 
Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. Specifically, the complaint alleges that during its November 22, 
2011 meeting, the Committee entered into executive session, but failed to announce the reason 
for entering into executive session. Additionally, the complaint alleges that the motion to enter 
into executive session was "not properly seconded." This complaint was originally filed with the 
Committee on November 23, 2011. We understand that you responded to Mr. Kelley's original 
complaint via email on November 23, 2011. However, you did not forward a copy your 
response on behalf of the Committee to our office, as required by the Open Meeting Law.1  See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b). 
Following our review, we find that, while the Committee announced a valid reason for 
entering into executive session, the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by discussing 
matters in executive session that were not appropriate given the stated purpose. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed: the November 23, 2011 and December 8, 2011 complaints; your 
November 23, 2011 response to the original complaint; the Committee's January 3, 2012 
response to our request for documents; the notice for the Committee's November 22, 2011 
meeting; the Committee's November 22, 2011 open and executive session minutes; and a video 
recording of the Committee's November 22, 2011 open session meeting.2  
We received your response from the complainant on December 8, 2011. 
2  We note that the video recording of the November 22, 2011 Committee meeting found on the AmherstMedia 
1 
0 
===PAGE 2===
FACTS 
The Committee posted notice on November 17, 2011 for a meeting to be held on 
November 22, 2011. Preceding the first topic on the meeting notice was "call for executive 
session — for the purpose of contract negotiations." This was the only mention of an executive 
session topic on the meeting notice. 
The open session minutes and the video recording reflect that, at the start of the meeting, 
Committee Chairman Richard Hood3  announced that the Committee would be entering into 
executive session at the conclusion of the meeting for the purpose of contract negotiations, and 
would not return to open session. The video recording reflects that, at the conclusion of the 
meeting, Chairman Hood moved to enter into executive session and the Committee conducted a 
roll call vote. The purpose for the executive session was not announced at that time. The 
executive session minutes reflect that during the session, the Committee was updated on the 
status of collective bargaining negotiations with several bargaining units of the Amherst-Pelham 
Education Association. The executive session minutes have not been released. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law allows public bodies to enter into a closed, or executive, session 
for any of ten purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). One such purpose, Purpose 2 is "[t]o conduct 
strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion personnel or to conduct collective 
bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion personnel." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(2). 
Another purpose, Purpose 3, allows a public body to enter executive session "[t]o discuss 
strategy with respect to collective bargaining . . . if an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the bargaining . . . position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 21(a)(3). 
The Committee's November 22, 2011 meeting notice indicated that the Committee 
would be entering into executive session for the purpose of contract negotiations. Additionally, 
at the start of the Committee's meeting, Chairman Hood declared that the Committee would be 
entering into executive session at the conclusion of the meeting for the purpose of contract 
negotiations. While it is appropriate for a public body to enter into executive session under 
Purpose 2 to conduct contract negotiations with nonunion personnel, this is not what occurred 
during the Committee's November 22, 2011 executive session. The executive session minutes 
reflect that the Committee received an update on the status of collective bargaining negotiations 
with various bargaining units within the Amherst-Pelham Education Association. This 
discussion would have been appropriate in executive session under Purpose 3, but was not under 
Purpose 2. The meeting notice should have indicated, and Chairman Hood should have declared, 
that the Committee was entering into executive session to discuss strategy with respect to 
collective bargaining and that having an open meeting would have a detrimental effect on the 
Committee's bargaining position. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
This is not a mere technical violation. Under the Open Meeting Law, "a precise 
statement of the reason for convening in executive session is necessary.  . . . because that is the 
only notification given to the public that a [public body] would conduct business in private, and 
YouTube page incorrectly lists the meeting date as November 23, 2011. 
3  For the sake of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person. 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the only way the public would know if the reason for doing so was proper or improper." District  
Attorney for the Northern District v. School Committee of Wayland, 455 Mass. 561, 567 (2009); 
OML 2011-30.4  Additionally, prior to convening an executive session, "the chair shall state the 
purpose for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without 
compromising the purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). 
This level of detail is also required in the meeting notice. In previous determinations, our office 
has held that a public body must identify the name of the individual with whom it is negotiating a 
contract, both on the meeting notice and prior to convening the executive session. See OML 
2011-15. This level of detail is also required when discussing strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining. In this instance, therefore, the Committee should have identified on its meeting 
notice the bargaining unit that was the subject of the executive session and the Chair should have 
publicly identified the bargaining unit prior to convening the executive session. 
The complaint also alleges that during the November 22, 2011 meeting, Committee 
member "Iry Rhodes made a motion to go into executive session 'never to return' but with no 
explanation/reason for the action, and Mr. Hood allowed it without having a proper second from 
another member." Chairman Hood did announce at the beginning of the meeting that the 
Committee would be entering into executive session for the purpose of contract negotiation. The 
Open Meeting Law is silent in regards to when during a meeting the chair must state the 
executive session purpose, therefore we do not find that the Committee violated the law by 
making its executive session announcement at the beginning of the meeting instead of 
immediately prior to entering executive session, although the announcement was insufficient as 
explained above. However, as a best practice, we recommend that public bodies announce the 
specific reason for entering into executive session immediately prior to convening the executive 
session. We additionally note that the there is no requirement in the Open Meeting Law that a 
motion to enter executive session be seconded, only that the ensuing vote be taken by roll call. 
See G.L. c 30A, § 21(b)(2). 
As a final matter, we remind the Committee of its obligation to review Open Meeting 
Law complaints and send its response to both the complainant and to our office within 14- 
business days, unless our office has granted an extension pursuant to 940 CMR 29.05(4). See 
G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5). 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Committee violated the Open Meeting Law during its November 22, 
2011 meeting by discussing maters in executive session that were not appropriate given the 
stated purpose. We order immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
offer this letter as future guidance. 
4  Open Meeting Law determinations can be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.  
3 
===PAGE 4===
We now consider this matter closed. Please feel free to contact me at the number below 
if you have any questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
I .  
Jonathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Goverment 
Ph: 617-963-2045 
cc: Larry Kelley 
4 