===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
           
April 2, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 55 
 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Peter L. Mello, Esq. 
Murphy Hesse Toomey & Lehane LLP 
pmello@mhtl.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Mello: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on October 5, 2023, alleging that 
the Brockton School Committee (the “Committee”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally filed with the Committee on or about September 1, 
2023, and you responded to the complaint, on behalf of the Committee, by letter dated 
September 22, 2023.  The complaint alleges that the Committee convened in executive session 
on August 31, 2023, to conduct strategy sessions in preparation for negotiations with nonunion 
personnel or to conduct collective bargaining sessions or contract negotiations with nonunion 
personnel but did not identify on the notice for the meeting the specific non-union personnel to 
be discussed. 
 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Committee’s response to 
the complaint, the complaint filed with our office requesting further review, and the open session 
meeting minutes of the Committee’s August 31 meeting.  In addition, we spoke by phone with 
the Committee’s attorney Sarah Spatafore, who attended the August 31 executive session.  The 
minutes of the August 31 executive session have not been released to the public and we do not 
recount details of the executive session.  However, we understand that the Committee had 
recently learned of a significant budget deficit and during the executive session it discussed 
concerns regarding the Superintendent as well as the Superintendent’s extended medical leave.  
For precisely the reasons stated in OML 2022-233 (Falmouth Select Board) at page 3, a copy of 
which is enclosed, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law in the way 
alleged. 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Committee.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.  
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
  
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via email: ) 
 Brockton School Committee , Via Chair (via email: mayorsullivan@cobma.us) 
Brockton City Clerk (via email: cityclerk@cobma.us) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The complaint 
must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
