===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 (617) 727-4765 TTY 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
July 29, 2021 
 
       OML 2021 – 102 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Chair Richard LaCamera 
Lakeville Board of Selectmen 
  
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Chair LaCamera: 
This office received a complaint from Patrick Higgins on March 24, 2021, alleging that 
the Lakeville Board of Selectmen (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on March 5, and the Board responded 
by letter dated March 24.1 In his complaint, Mr. Higgins alleges that the Board did not post 
notice for its January 11 meeting.   
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law. In 
reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, which included screen captures from the Lakeville town website, and the 
complainant’s request for further review.  
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On December 17, 2018, the Board designated the Town of 
Lakeville’s website (www.lakevillema.org) as the official notice posting location for the Town. 
The homepage of the Town’s website includes a calendar where notices for all board and 
committee meetings are posted, and directly below the calendar, the heading “Upcoming 
Meetings” with direct links to the next-scheduled meetings as well as a link to find all scheduled 
meetings. Separately, the Board has its own page on the Town’s website, which can be accessed 
from the “Boards & Committees” link on the homepage. The Board’s meeting notices are 
usually posted on the Board’s own webpage in addition to the Town calendar on the homepage. 
On Thursday, January 7, at approximately 3:15 p.m., the Town Clerk posted notice for 
the Board’s January 11 meeting to the main calendar on the Town’s homepage. However, the 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2021. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
notice was not posted to the Board’s own webpage. Therefore, when viewing the Board’s 
webpage, as opposed to the Town website’s homepage, the January 11 meeting notice did not 
appear. The Board met on Monday, January 11, at 6:30 p.m. as scheduled.  
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.” Ghiglione v. School Committee of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). The Open Meeting Law requires that “[e]xcept in an 
emergency…a public body shall post notice of every meeting at least 48 hours prior to such 
meeting excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). Meeting 
notices must contain the date, time, and place of the meeting, as well as a listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). A municipality may only 
have one official notice posting location and if it has adopted its website as its notice posting 
location, then that is the official location for purposes of the Open Meeting Law. 940 CMR 
29.03(2)(b)(3) & (c); See OML 2021-17; See OML 2020-140.2  
Here, the Board’s official notice posting location is Lakeville’s Town website, 
www.lakevillema.org. The Town Clerk posted notice for the Board’s January 11 meeting to the 
calendar on the Town’s homepage. Because the notice did not also appear on the Board’s own 
webpage, Mr. Higgins believed that the Board had not posted notice for the January 11 meeting. 
Although we recommend that public bodies aim for consistency when posting meeting notices 
on town websites, we find that the January 11 meeting notice was clearly posted to the calendar 
on the Town website’s homepage. Since the Board’s official posting location is the Town 
website and the notice was in fact posted there, in an intuitive location that is regularly used, 
more than 48 hours in advance of the meeting, we find no violation with respect to the posting of 
the notice for the January 11 meeting.  
CONCLUSION 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting 
Law. We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
Sarah Monahan 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
Assisted by: Alexis Kenney, Legal Intern, Division of Open Government 
 
 
2 All previous determinations issued by the Division can be found on the Attorney General’s website: 
https://www.mass.gov/the-open-meeting-law. 

===PAGE 3===
3 
 
cc: Patrick Higgins (via e-mail:  
 Lakeville Board of Selectmen c/o Town Clerk Lillian M. Drane (via e-mail: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
