===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago  
June 4, 2013 
OML 2013 - 74 
Robin E. Hamlett 
Recording Secretary 
Gill-Montague Regional School Committee 
35 Crocker Ave 
Turner Falls, MA 01376 
Dear Ms. Hamlett: 
This office received an Open Meeting Law complaint from Stephanie Bassett-Fox dated 
May 16, 2012, alleging that the Gill-Montague Regional School Committee (the "Committee") 
violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that 
Committee Chair Mike Langknecht and Committee member Jeff Singleton engaged in "public 
discussions about School Committee matters" through a website, www.montaguema.net.  The 
complaint was filed with the Committee on or about April 12, 2012. The Committee responded 
to the complaint by letter dated April 25, 2012. 
Following our review, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open Meeting Law 
because a quorum of the Committee did not engage in discussions on public business within the 
Committee's jurisdiction outside of an open meeting. In reaching this determination, we 
reviewed the April 12, 2012 complaint filed with the Committee; the Committee's April 25, 
2012 response; and the May 16, 2012 complaint filed with our office. We also reviewed a series 
of messages posted to www.montaguema.net,  provided by the complainant, dated December 14, 
2011 through May 2, 2012. 
FACTS  
The Committee is a nine-member public body. The website, www.montaguema.net,  
describes itself as the "place on the web for local gossip, news, event calendars and business 
listings for Montague, MA." The website functions as a message board, allowing members of 
the public to post, respond to, and read messages. Between December 14, 2011 and May 2, 
2012, Committee members Mike Langknecht and Jeff Singleton posted messages to the website, 
occasionally directed to each other, regarding public business within the Committee's 
jurisdiction. Examples of topics discussed by the two Committee members via the website 
include discussion about the teachers' union mobilizing teachers to challenge the Committee's 
===PAGE 2===
onathan Sc arsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
long term planning process and the firing of a School District employee. None of the other 
Committee members posted messages to the website. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires that "[e]xcept as provided in [G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)], all 
meetings of a public body shall be open to the public." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). Meeting is defined, 
in part, as "a deliberation by a public body with respect to any matter within the body's 
jurisdiction." G.L. c. 30A, § 18. Deliberation is defined, in relevant part, as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. A quorum is a "simple 
majority of the members of the public body, unless otherwise provided in a general or special 
law, executive order or other authorizing provision." Id. 
Here, two members of the nine-member Committee communicated directly with one 
another via an online message board regarding public business within the Committee's 
jurisdiction, including topics regarding the teachers' union and the firing of a School District 
employee. Although a majority of the Committee's members could have read the messages on 
www.montaguema.net, Mr. Langknecht's and Mr. Singleton's messages were not directed to a 
quorum of the Committee. See OML 2011-33. 1  We therefore find that, because the 
communications were not directed to a quorum of the members of the Committee, and because a 
quorum of the members did not participate in posting to the website, that the Committee did not 
deliberate outside of an open meeting and did not violate the Open Meeting Law. See G.L. c. 
30A, § 18. However, we caution the Committee that communication on an electronic message 
board is improper deliberation outside of an open meeting if it is between or among a quorum of 
the body's members and concerns public business within its jurisdiction. See id. 
CONCLUSION 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Committee did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during this investigation, and 
now consider this matter closed. Please contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any 
questions regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviago/openmeeting.  
2 
===PAGE 3===
cc: Stephanie Bassett-Fox 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
3 