===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200
(617) 727-4765 TTY
www.mass.gov/ago
January 21, 2022 
OML 2022 – 4 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
Alex Bowman 
Sandisfield Board of Selectmen 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Bowman: 
This office received a complaint from Mark Newman on September 8, 2021,1 alleging 
that the Sandisfield Select Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 11, and you responded
on behalf of the Board by letter dated August 8.
To begin, we note that the complaint raises general allegations related to the timeliness 
and propriety of the Board’s posting of meeting notices; the sufficiency of the Board’s meeting 
notices; and “the practice of changing postings and agendas.” Based on information provided 
with the complaint and the Board’s response, we understand the complaint to specifically allege 
that the notice for the Board’s June 22 meeting was not properly posted and was insufficiently 
specific. Because the complaint does not otherwise identify any specific meetings for which 
notice was improperly posted, and because the remaining allegation does not clearly or 
specifically allege a violation of the Open Meeting Law, our review is limited to whether the 
Board properly posted notice for its June 22 meeting and whether that notice was sufficiently 
specific. See OML 2020-156 (Complainants must allege violations with a degree of specificity, 
as our office will not conduct broad audits of public bodies based on generalized allegations); 
OML Declination 3-20-12 (Wilmington Board of Assessors).  
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
including an insufficiently specific topic on the notice for its June 22 meeting. We find that the 
Board did not otherwise violate the Law. In reaching this determination we reviewed the original 
1 All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise noted. 

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request for further review, and the 
notice and minutes of the Board’s June 22 meeting. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. On Friday, June 18, at 12:32 p.m. the Chair of the 
Board emailed the Town Clerk regarding a notice for a meeting to be held on Tuesday, June 22 
at 4:00 p.m. The Chair stated “I know you’re not in the office today but this needs to be posted 
today, and I don’t know who else can do this. I’m happy to do it but I can’t log in to the 
website.” After recalling that the Town’s official notice posting location is a bulletin board 
outside of Town Hall, the Chair posted the meeting notice to the outside of the glass case 
containing the bulletin board.  
 
The notice for the June 22 meeting included one substantive topic, “Review & discuss 
draft of Independent Accountant’s Report on Applying Agreed-Upon Procedures from Scanlon 
& Associates, LLC.” The Board met on June 22 as scheduled and heard a report from an 
accounting firm regarding problems with and recommendations for the Town’s bookkeeping and 
tax collection. The Board also heard from the Chair of the Finance Committee, the Town 
Treasurer/Tax Collector, and the Town Accountant regarding these matters.  
  
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of all meetings at least 48 
hours prior to such meetings, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays. G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The Law states that, for local public bodies, “notice shall be filed with the municipal 
clerk and posted in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the 
municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). The Attorney 
General’s Open Meeting Law regulations further provide that for local public bodies  
 
[t]he official method of posting notice shall be by filing with the municipal clerk, 
or other person designated by agreement with the municipal clerk, who shall post 
notice of the meeting in a manner conspicuously visible to the public at all hours 
in, on, or near the municipal building in which the clerk’s office is located.  
 
940 CMR 29.03(2)(a). 
 
Although the regulations state that the municipal clerk shall post meeting notices, the Open 
Meeting Law applies to public bodies and their members; therefore, the responsibility for 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, including the Law’s notice posting requirements, 
ultimately rests with the public body. See OML 2015-90.2 
 
In addition to requiring that meeting notices be timely and properly posted, the Open 
Meeting Law also requires that notices include, among other things, a “listing of topics that the 
chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b). These topics 
 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
must be listed with “sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be 
discussed at the meeting.” G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b); 940 CMR 29.03(l)(b). We generally consider a 
topic to include sufficient specificity when a reasonable member of the public could read the 
topic and understand the anticipated nature of the public body’s discussion. See OML 2019-70; 
OML 2021-202.  
 
With respect to the act of posting notice for the June 22 meeting, the thrust of the 
Complainant’s concern appears to be that the Chair of the Board, rather than the Town Clerk, 
posted the notice. Because the obligation to comply with the Open Meeting Law rests with the 
Board, we do not find a violation of the Law where the Board itself took appropriate action to 
comply with the Law. To the extent that the complaint also alleges that the meeting notice was 
not timely posted because of the Juneteenth holiday, we find that the notice was timely posted. In 
2021 the Juneteenth holiday fell on a Saturday and therefore did not impact the calculation of the 
48 hours required for timely notice posting under the Open Meeting Law.3  
 
Finally, with respect to the sufficiency of the notice for the June 22 meeting, we find that 
the notice topic “Review & discuss draft of Independent Accountant’s Report on Applying 
Agreed-Upon Procedures from Scanlon & Associates, LLC” was insufficiently specific to 
reasonably inform the public of the anticipated nature of the discussion held. Although the topic 
as listed may have been accurate and meaningful to the Board and members of the public who 
regularly follow the Board’s business and were already aware of the nature of the report, we find 
that it was insufficient to reasonably advise members of the public unfamiliar with the regular 
matters of the Board that the Board would discuss a report regarding findings and 
recommendations related to the Town’s bookkeeping and tax collection. See OML 2020-164; 
OML 2013-55; OML 2020-132.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
posting an insufficiently specific notice for its June 22 meeting. We find that the Board did not 
otherwise violate the Law with regard to the procedures used for posting the notice. We order the 
Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and caution that similar 
future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board. Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 Pursuant to the Secretary of the Commonwealth, in Massachusetts Saturday holidays are observed on Saturday. 
https://www.sec.state.ma.us/cis/cishol/holidx.htm. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Sandisfield Select Board (via email: )  
 Mark Newman (via e-mail: ) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
 
