===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617) 727-2200 
(617) 727-4765 TTY 
www.mass.gov/ago  
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
April 2, 2013 
OML 2013 - 40 
Dr. Brian Bowcock 
Chair 
Fairhaven Board of Selectmen 
Town Hall 
40 Center Street 
Fairhaven, MA 02719 
Dear Chair Bowcock: 
This office received Open Meeting Law complaints from Kenneth Pottel, Joyce Pottel, 
Donna McKenna, Grant Menard, John McGowan, and Karen Isherwood, all alleging that the 
Fairhaven Board of Selectmen (the "Board") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 
18-25. The complaints allege the following: 
1. The Board failed to post notice of its December 12, 2011 meeting; 
2. The Board failed to place topics on the agenda for the December 12, 2011 
meeting after several members of the public requested the topics in writing at 
least three business days prior to the meeting; 
3. The Board limited public participation during its December 12, 2011 meeting and 
refused to answer questions posed by members of the public; 
4. Michael Sylvia, who was Board Chair at the time, whispered to Selectman Brian 
Bowcock' in "a tone that could not be detected by the audience;" 
5. During the Board's December 12, 2011 meeting, the Board turned off the live 
video feed that had been broadcasting on cable access television; 
6. An individual attempted to enter the Board's December 12, 2011 meeting and was 
denied entry by two uniformed police officers; and 
7. The Board failed to state a purpose for its executive session during its December 
12, 2011 meeting, and discussed matters that were not appropriate for executive 
session. 
1 For purposes of clarity in this letter, we will refer to you in the third person. 
1 
===PAGE 2===
The complaints were filed with the Board on or about December 17, 2011. The Board responded 
by letters dated January 6, 2012 and January 23, 2012. The complaints were filed with our office 
on or about March 21, 2012. 
We appreciate the patience and cooperation of the parties during our review. In resolving 
these complaints, we reviewed the six complaints filed with the Board on or about December 17, 
2011; the Board's letters dated January 6, 2012 and January 23, 2012; and the complaints filed 
with our office on or about March 21, 2012. We reviewed a December 7, 2011 letter to the 
Board from Donna McKenna, Grant Menard, Karen Isherwood, Ken Pottell, Joe Rosa, and 
Cheryl Methia. We also reviewed the notice, minutes and executive session minutes of the 
Board's December 12, 2011 meeting. We reviewed a letter from Grant Menard, dated January 
13, 2012, and addressed to our office and the Board. We reviewed a signed statement from 
Lionel Garcia dated February 1, 2012. Additionally, we reviewed a March 5, 2011 letter from 
John McGowan addressed to our office. We interviewed Town Clerk Eileen Lowney by 
telephone on May 30, 2012. We interviewed Town Counsel Thomas Cottry by telephone on 
June 1, 2012. Finally, we reviewed two video recordings of the Board's December 12, 2011 
meeting: one provided by the Board, as it aired on the Fairhaven Cable Access television station, 
and one provided by the complainant, available at www.windwise.org/sellect-board.html.  
Following our review, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with 
respect to the first six allegations listed above. We do, however, find that the Board violated the 
Open Meeting Law during its December 12, 2011 meeting when it entered into executive session 
without stating the purpose for the executive session or providing the public with any detail 
regarding the topics to be discussed. 
FACTS 
On November 16, 2011, the Fairhaven Town Clerk received and date-stamped a notice 
for the Board's December 12, 2011 meeting. That notice did not list any topics for discussion. 
On December 7, 2011, Fairhaven residents Donna McKenna, Grant Menard, Karen Isherwood, 
Ken Pottell, Joe Rosa, and Cheryl Methia wrote a letter to the Board of Selectmen requesting that 
the Board add to the December 12, 2011 meeting agenda five topics regarding wind turbines. On 
December 8, 2011, the Board submitted to the Town Clerk a listing of topics to accompany the 
notice for the Board's December 12, 2011 meeting. The list of topics did not include the five 
topics requested by the residents in their December 7, 2011 letter. According to Town Clerk 
Eileen Lowney, the revised meeting notice was posted to the Town's bulletin board within a few 
minutes of it being time stamped by her office. 
The Board held its December 12, 2011 meeting at the Fairhaven Town Hall. About ten 
minutes prior to the start of the meeting, the complainants recorded a video of the Town Hall 
bulletin board. A woman in the video states that there is "no posting of the Select Board meeting 
for December 12, 2011." While the video shows the Town's bulletin board, the quality of the 
video is such that no details of the posted notices can be discerned. 
The December 12, 2011 Board meeting was chaired by Michael Silva. Shortly after the 
start of the meeting, several members of the audience began addressing the Board regarding 
wind turbines. The meeting became confrontational, and after several minutes of shouting, the 
2 
===PAGE 3===
Board recessed the meeting. The meeting was broadcast live on the Fairhaven Cable Access 
television station. After the Board recessed, the live feed from the broadcast ceased. The 
broadcast resumed once the Board reconvened. The broadcast did not include at least fifteen 
minutes of the discussion that occurred between the Board and audience members. 
The complaints allege that prior to the Cable Access feed ceasing to broadcast, "[chair] 
Michael Sylvia whispered to Selectman Bowcock, in a tone which could not be detected by the 
audience. After the whispered exchange, Selectmen Bowcock rose and exited the door behind 
the Selectboard members, and returned moments later to his seat." In both video recordings of 
the meeting, the camera was pointed toward an audience member who was addressing the Board 
at the time this exchange allegedly occurred. 
During the meeting, Lionel Garcia attempted to enter Town Hall to attend the meeting. 
According to the complaints and Mr. Garcia's signed statement, Mr. Garcia was unable to enter 
the meeting room because a uniformed police officer standing in the doorway prohibited him 
from entering. Mr. Garcia further stated that the police officer told him the meeting had already 
started and the room was at capacity. Mr. Garcia waited, but was denied entry to the meeting 
and eventually went home. The complainants claim that the room was not at capacity, and their 
video of the meeting shows several empty seats. The Board states in its January 23, 2012 letter 
that police officers were called to the meeting to ensure order. The Board further states that the 
Chief of Police interviewed both police officers who responded to the meeting, and both reported 
that no one was turned away. 
At the end of the meeting, the Board voted to enter into executive session. The open 
session minutes state that "Dr. Bowcock motioned to adjourn the meeting and proceed to 
executive session to discuss Rod Taylor's Aquaculture Agreement, the Solar Project at the 
landfill, Freedom of Information Act documents for UMass from Town Council [sic], building 
permit and Seaport Inn; not reconvene in open session." Despite this statement in the minutes, 
the video of the Board's meeting shows that Chair Silva said only "I will entertain a motion to go 
into executive session and not reconvene in open session." Mr. Bowcock then stated "so moved" 
and Mr. Murphy said "Second." The Board then voted unanimously by roll call vote to enter 
into executive session, at which point the public portion of the meeting closed. The minutes do 
not list any purpose for the executive session. 
In executive session, the Board discussed the following: four public records requests; a 
draft agreement with a power company; an aquaculture agreement; a letter from a resident 
challenging a building permit; and taking legal action against an entity. 
DISCUSSION 
1. 	 The Board Met its Obligation to Post Notice for its December 12, 2011 Meeting.  
The complaints allege that the Board failed to post notice of its December 12, 2012 
meeting. The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "post notice of every meeting at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(b). The notice must include the "date, time and place of such meeting and a listing of topics 
that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the meeting." Id. For meetings of a 
3 
===PAGE 4===
local public body, notice must be "filed with the municipal clerk and posted in a manner 
conspicuously visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building in which the 
clerk's office is located." G.L. c. 30A, § 20(c). 
The Board provided our office with a copy of a notice for its December 12, 2011 
meeting, date-stamped by the Town Clerk on November 16, 2011, and a list of topics for the 
Board's December 12, 2011 meeting, date-stamped by the Town Clerk on December 8, 2011. 
We interviewed Town Clerk Eileen Lowney, who explained that she received the notices when 
they were date-stamped, and that to the best of her knowledge, the notices were posted on the 
Town's bulletin board within a few minutes of being time stamped by her office. To support 
their contention that the notice was not posted, the complainants provided our office with a video 
showing the Town bulletin board where meeting notices are normally posted. The video panned 
over the Board about ten minutes prior to the start of the Board's December 12, 2011 meeting. 
Although we reviewed this video, the quality of the video was such that we could not clearly 
read the content of the notices that were posted to the board. Therefore, we do not find any 
evidence that the Board failed to post notice. We accept the Board's and the Town Clerk's 
assertions that notice for the Board's December 12, 2011 meeting was timely and properly 
posted. 
2. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Place a Topic on 
the Agenda for its December 12, 2011 Meeting.  
The complainants sent a letter to the Board on December 7, 2011, requesting that five 
topics be added to the Board's agenda for its December 12, 2011 meeting. It is unclear whether 
the Board received the letter, but regardless, the topics were not added to the agenda. The 
complainants allege that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by refusing to place the 
topics on the agenda for the meeting. The Open Meeting Law contains no requirement that a 
public body add topics to its meeting agenda if requested by members of the public. The agenda 
for a meeting is entirely within the discretion of the chair and the public body. While we 
encourage public bodies to be responsive to issues raised by members of the public, the Open 
Meeting Law does not require that they address such topics in a meeting. 
3. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law by Limiting Public 
Participation During its December 12, 2011 Meeting.  
The complainants allege that during the December 12, 2011 meeting, the Board "refused 
to address or answer a question posed to the Board on the subject matter which was being 
discussed, and interrupted the questioner." While open meetings of public bodies must be open 
and accessible to the public, the Open Meeting Law does not require that a public body allow 
public participation. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a), (f). The law states that "[n]o person shall address a 
meeting of a public body without permission of the chair, and all persons shall, at the request of 
the chair, be silent. No person shall disrupt the proceedings of a meeting of a public body. If, 
after clear warning from the chair, a person continues to disrupt the proceedings, the chair may 
order the person to withdraw from the meeting and if the person does not withdraw, the chair 
may authorize a constable or other officer to remove the person from the meeting." G.L. c. 30A, 
§ 20(f). The Open Meeting Law permits the chair to decide who can speak at a meeting and for 
how long. See id. During the meeting, a number of members of the audience asked the Board 
4 
===PAGE 5===
questions, and at times shouted at the Board. The Open Meeting Law requires that all members 
of the public have access to witness the open session deliberations of a public body; but the Law 
does not give the public the riht to address the Board or require the Board to respond. See 
OML 2012-23; OML 2011-2.1  We therefore find that the Board did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law by limiting public participation.2  
4. We do not Find Evidence that the Board Engaged in an Impermissible 
Deliberation During the Board's December 12, 2011 Meeting.  
The complainants allege that during the meeting, "[chair] Michael Sylvia whispered to 
Selectman Bowcock, in a tone which could not be detected by the audience. After the whispered 
exchange, Selectmen Bowcock rose and exited the door behind the Selectboard members, and 
returned moments later to his seat." The Open Meeting Law requires that all deliberations take 
place during a meeting. G.L. c. 30A, § 18. A "deliberation" is defined as "an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum of 
a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction." Id. Here, the Board had three 
members, thus two members constituted a quorum. 
We were unable to verify whether the alleged exchange took place because, in both of the 
videos provided to our office, the camera was pointed toward an audience member who was 
addressing the Board when this exchange allegedly occurred. Although such a communication 
would have constituted improper deliberation, based on the lack of evidence that such a 
communication occurred, we find no violation of the Open Meeting Law. 
5. The Board did not Violate the Open Meeting Law when the Live Broadcast of its 
December 12, 2011 Meeting was Shut Off.  
The complainants allege that a Board member arose from his seat during the meeting, 
went behind a door, and shut off the live video feed that was broadcasting the meeting on the 
Cable Access television station. The video recording of the meeting provided by the Board 
omits about fifteen minutes during the most heated portion of the meeting. Without deciding 
whether the Board was responsible for shutting off the broadcast, we note that the Open Meeting 
Law does not require that public bodies video record or broadcast meetings. See OML 2013-8; 
OML 2012-57. Whether a public body chooses to broadcast its meetings is within its discretion. 3  
Therefore, we find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law during the December 
12, 2011 meeting when the video broadcast of the meeting was shut off 
I  Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.goviago/openmeeting.  
2  The Division of Open Government only enforces the Open Meeting Law, therefore we express no opinion as to 
whether any other law may have required the Chair to allow the complainant to offer additional comments. 
3After notifying the chair of the public body, any person may make a video or audio recording of an open session of 
a meeting of a public body, or may transmit the meeting through any medium, subject to reasonable requirements of 
the chair as to the number, placement and operation of equipment used so as not to interfere with the conduct of the 
meeting. At the beginning of the meeting the chair shall inform other attendees of any such recordings. 
G.L. c. 30A, § 20(e). 
5 
===PAGE 6===
6. We Are Unable to Resolve the Complaint Alleging that a Member of the Public 
was Denied Access to the Board's December 12, 2011 Meeting.  
All meetings of a public body, except for executive session meetings, must be open and 
accessible to members of the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a). The complainants allege that after the 
start of the meeting, Fairhaven resident Lionel Garcia attempted to attend the meeting, but was 
refused entrance by a uniformed police officer. Mr. Garcia provided our office with a signed 
statement, averring that a police officer told him that the meeting had already started and the 
room was at capacity. Mr. Garcia waited, but was allegedly denied entry to the meeting and 
eventually went home. The complainants claim that the room was not at capacity, and their 
video of the meeting shows several empty seats. The Board states in its January 23, 2012 letter 
that police officers were called to the meeting to ensure order. The Board states that the Chief of 
Police interviewed both police officers who responded to the meeting, and both of them reported 
that no one was turned away. Due to the directly conflicting accounts as to what occurred, we 
are unable to resolve this allegation. However, we remind the Board of its obligation to ensure 
that all members of the public have access to its open meetings. See OML 2012-46. 
7. The Board Failed to Follow Proper Procedures for Entering Executive Session.  
The complainants' final allegation is that the during the Board's December 12, 2011 
meeting, the Board entered executive session, but "[n]o declaration was made by the chairman 
indicating that such executive session was necessary pursuant to any of the purposes specified in 
MGLc30A sec. 21a." Before entering into executive session, the chair must "state the purpose 
for the executive session, stating all subjects that may be revealed without compromising the 
purpose for which the executive session was called." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(b)(3). A public body 
may enter executive — or closed — session for any of ten enumerated purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a). Among those purposes is Purpose 3, It]o discuss strategy with respect to collective 
bargaining or litigation if an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the bargaining or 
litigating position of the public body and the chair so declares." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(3). 
Purpose 6 allows a public body to enter executive session "[t]o consider the purchase, exchange, 
lease or value of real property if the chair declares that an open meeting may have a detrimental 
effect on the negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). 
Here, the Board Chair merely stated, "I will entertain a motion to go into executive 
session and not reconvene in open session." The Board then voted unanimously by roll call vote 
to enter into executive session, at which point the public portion of the meeting closed. The 
Chair failed to state a statutory purpose for the executive session, or give any detail regarding the 
anticipated discussion. 
During the executive session, the Board discussed four public records requests; a draft 
lease with a power company; an aquaculture lease; a letter from a resident challenging a building 
permit, and taking legal action against an entity. The two lease agreements were appropriate to 
discuss in executive session under Purpose 6, however the law requires that the Chair publicly 
state before the executive session that "an open meeting may have a detrimental effect on the 
negotiating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(6). The Chair failed to do so. 
After reviewing the executive session minutes and speaking with Town Counsel Thomas 
6 
===PAGE 7===
Cottry, we believe that the additional topics discussed by the Board concerned pending litigation 
matters, and thus were appropriate for executive session under Purpose 3. However, the Chair 
failed to state before entering executive session that the "an open meeting may have a 
detrimental effect on the bargaining or litigating position of the public body." G.L. c. 30A, § 
21(a)(3). 
We therefore find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law because the Chair failed 
to state publicly before entering executive session the purposes for the executive session, and 
failed to state that an open session would have an detrimental effect on the Board's negotiating 
and litigating positions. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law with respect to the first six 
allegations listed above. We do, however, find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law 
during its December 12, 2011 meeting when it entered into executive session without stating the 
purpose for the executive session or providing the public with any detail regarding the topics to 
be discussed. 
We order the Board's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and 
order the Board members to review the Attorney General's Open Meeting Law training video on 
executive sessions, which may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting.1  The Board shall certify in writing to the Division of Open 
Government, within thirty (30) days of receipt of this letter, that it has complied with this order. 
We now consider this matter closed. Please contact me if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
Sincerely, 
onathan Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Thomas Crotty, Town Counsel 
Kenneth Pottel 
Joyce Pottel 
Donna McKenna 
Grant Menard 
John McGowan 
Karen Isherwood 
1  This video may be found at the OML Events, Hearings, and Trainings section of the website, and is labeled Video 
#4: Executive Sessions. 
7 
===PAGE 8===
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty one-days of receipt of this order. 
8 