===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
TEL:(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
September 15, 2016 
OML 2016-129 
Susan Hazen 
Chair, Rowley Board of Registrars 
Rowley Town Clerk 
139 Main Street 
PO Box 351 
Rowley, MA 01969 
Rowley Board of Selectmen 
c/o Deborah Eagan 
Rowley Town Administrator 
139 Main Street 
PO Box 275 
Rowley, MA 01969 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Hazen and Ms. Eagan: 
This office received three complaints from Attorney William Moschella on June 
29, alleging that the Rowley Board of Selectmen and the Rowley Board of Registrars (the 
"Boards") violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.' The complaints were 
originally filed with the Boards on or about June 7, June 13, and June 14, and you both 
responded, on behalf of the Boards, by letters dated June 20 and June 24.2 All three 
complaints allege that the Boards improperly invoked the attorney-client privilege to redact 
executive session minutes.3 
Following our review, we find that neither Board violated the Open Meeting Law. 
In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Boards' 
1 Unless otherwise indicated, all dates in this letter refer to the year 2016. Two complaints were filed with 
the Boards separately and one complaint was filed with the Boards jointly. 
2 For purposes of clarity, we will refer to you in the third person hereafter. Ms. Hazen responded on behalf 
of the Board of Registrars and Ms. Eagan responded on behalf of the Board of Selectmen. 
3 We note that on September 7, the complainant withdrew two other complaints purportedly filed with the 
Boards, dated April 29 and May 2, as the allegations mirror those in the complaints at issue here. 
MAURA HEALEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
O 
===PAGE 2===
responses, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review. 
Additionally, we reviewed the Boards' responses to the complainant's requests for the 
executive session minutes at issue. 
FACTS 
We find the facts as follows. On January 11, 2016, the Boards held a joint meeting 
for the sole purpose of convening an executive session to discuss an ongoing lawsuit filed 
against them by a former Rowley Water Commissioner. The case was dismissed on 
February 3, 2016. As a result of the dismissal, the Boards determined that the executive 
session minutes could no longer be withheld under the applicable executive session 
purpose under the Open Meeting Law. However, the Boards continue to withhold the 
minutes from the public under the attorney-client privilege. 
On May 28, the complainant submitted a request to the Board of Registrars for a 
copy of the January 11, 2016 executive session minutes. In a letter dated May 31, the 
Board of Registrars stated that it would not release the requested minutes because they 
were protected under the attorney-client privilege. On June 1, the Board of Selectmen sent 
a similar response to the complainant's May 24 request for the same minutes. In response 
to the complaints, the Boards released redacted copies of the minutes, asserting the 
attorney-client privilege for the redactions. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law requires public bodies to "create and maintain accurate 
minutes of all meetings, including executive sessions, setting forth the date, time and place, 
the members present or absent, a summary of the discussions on each subject, a list of 
documents and other exhibits used at the meeting, the decisions made and the actions taken 
at each meeting, including the record of all votes." G.L. c. 30A, § 22(a). The Open 
Meeting Law requires that a public body respond to a request for minutes, both open and 
executive sessions, within 10 days of the request. G.L. c. 30A, § 22(c), (g)(2). Upon 
request by any person to inspect or copy the minutes of an executive session, the public 
body must respond to the request within 10 days following receipt and must release any 
such minutes not covered by an exemption; provided, however, that if the body has not 
performed a review, the public body shall perform the review and release the nonexempt 
minutes, or any portion thereof, not later than the public body's next meeting or 30 days, 
whichever first occurs. G.L. c. 3OA, § 22(g)(2). 
The complainant challenges the Boards' assertion that the January 11, 2016 
executive session minutes are protected by the attorney-client privilege. The complainant 
contends that the Board of Registrars waived the privilege because third parties attended 
2 
===PAGE 3===
the closed-door discussion.4 Here, the Boards were not relying on the Open Meeting Law 
as a basis for withholding the minutes, but rather had released them subject to redaction 
pursuant to the attorney-client privilege. A public body may cite the attorney-client 
privilege as a reason for continuing to withhold executive session minutes, even where the 
executive session purpose may have expired. See G.L. c. 30A, § 22(f). The Open Meeting 
Law authorizes the Attorney General to investigate a complaint alleging a violation of the 
law and to request documents in the course of that investigation, but does not give us the 
authority to determine whether the Boards' assertion of the attorney-client privilege was 
justified. See OML 2014-22; OML 2013-7.5 Because the executive session minutes are 
no longer being withheld from the public under the Open Meeting Law, we find no 
violation of that law. The complainant may be able to challenge the Boards' assertion of 
the privilege in another forum. 
We find that neither Board violated the Open Meeting Law. We now consider the 
complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved. This determination does not 
address any other complaints that may be pending with either Board or with our office. 
Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions regarding 
this letter. 
cc: William Moschella, Esq. 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain 
judicial review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 
23(d). The complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of 
receipt of a final order. 
4 Specifically, the complainant contends that the Board of Selectmen participated in the executive session as 
a third party because it was only listed as a party to the lawsuit in order to enforce an injunction, if one was 
granted, and therefore was not represented by Town counsel for purposes of the executive session. 
5 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
CONCLUSION 
Sincerely, 
Hanne Rush 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 