===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
August 12, 2024 
 
       OML 2024 – 159 
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Michael C. Johns 
Town Administrator 
Town of Boxborough 
29 Middle Road 
Boxborough, MA 01719 
 
mjohns@boxborough-ma.gov 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Mr. Johns: 
 
This office received a complaint from Cindy Markowitz on May 9, 2024, alleging that the 
Boxborough Select Board (the “Select Board”), the Boxborough Housing Board (the “Housing 
Board”), and the Boxborough Affordable Housing Trust (the “Trust”) (collectively, the “Public 
Bodies”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was originally 
filed with the Public Bodies on April 8,
1 and you responded on behalf of the Public Bodies by 
email on April 10.2  In her complaint, Ms. Markowitz alleges that members of the Public Bodies 
that met with the Town Administrator constituted subcommittees of the public body to which 
each belonged and that these subcommittees violated the Open Meeting Law when they met 
outside of a posted public meeting and when they failed to create minutes. 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2024. 
2 It does not appear the Public Bodies reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint during a meeting.  None of the 
Public Bodies held a meeting between the time of the complaint and the time of the response.   The Open Meeting 
Law and the Attorney General’s Open Meeting Law Regulations require that, within 14 business days after 
receiving a complaint, a public body must meet to review the complaint’s allegations; take remedial action, if 
appropriate; and send to the complainant a response and a description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 
23; 940 CMR 29.05(5).  The public body shall simultaneously provide the Attorney General with a copy of the 
complaint, the response, and a description of any remedial action taken. 940 CMR 29.05(5).  A public body may 
delegate authority to respond to a complaint to a staff member, but the public body must first meet to review the 
complaint.  See OML 2020-164 (“The Board may review the complaint at a meeting and then authorize the 
Administrator to prepare and send the response, or the Administrator may receive the complaint and draft a response 
for the Board to review at a meeting, but the Board may not remove itself entirely from the process.”).   See also 
OML 2023-168. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the group did not include subcommittees but did 
constitute a public body and that it violated the Open Meeting Law when it met without 
complying with the Law’s requirements.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the 
original complaint, the Public Bodies’ response, and the complainant’s request for further 
review.  We also reviewed minutes of the Boxborough Building Committee’s February 21 
meeting, minutes of the Housing Board’s meetings on January 18, February 15 and March 14, 
minutes of the Trust’s March 7 meeting, and minutes and recordings of the Select Board’s 
meetings on February 26 and March 25.
3  We also reviewed a deed conveying property on Stow 
Road, Boxborough, recorded in the Middlesex (South) Registry of Deeds, Book 56124, Page 
151.  Finally, we reviewed a report entitled “Valuation of 72 Stow Road,” dated May 6, 2021, 
and documents attached thereto, including a Memorandum of Understanding, dated January 24, 
2011.
4   
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On or about December 17, 2010, Beverly G. Ludovico, as 
Trustee of the Lyons Family Trust, conveyed to the Town of Boxborough, by and through the 
Housing Board, property at 70-72 Stow Road, Boxborough (“the Property”).  The Property was 
to be used for affordable housing and the purchase was funded by the Trust.  In recognition that 
“it is uncertain that all of [the Property] can be used for affordable housing purposes and the 
[Housing Board] may determine that a portion or share of the property would best be utilized for 
municipal purposes other than affordable housing,” the Public Bodies entered an agreement 
whereby the Town of Boxborough would reimburse the Housing Board for any portion not used 
for affordable housing.  On January 24, 2011, the Public Bodies executed a Memorandum of 
Understanding (“MOU”), memorializing this agreement.
5  The MOU calls for the Housing 
Board, the Trust and the Town to negotiate a fair price in the event of a future transfer, relying 
on the “good faith and effective advocacy” of future planners “to realize the intent of the 
[Housing Board], Trust and the Town.”     
 
In November 2019, the Boxborough Building Committee recommended to the Select 
Board that the Property be used as the site for a new public safety building.  Then-Town 
Administrator Ryan Ferrara determined that transfer of the Property from the Housing Board to 
the Select Board for construction of a public safety building would require several steps.  The 
Housing Board would be required to approve the transfer and advise the Select Board that it no 
longer had a need for the Property.  The Select Board would then sponsor an article to be 
included on the warrant for annual town meeting.  The Housing Board, the Trust and the Select 
Board would need to agree to a monetary figure to compensate the Trust for the Property.   
 
 
3Recordings of the February 26 and March 25 meetings are available at 
https://boxborough.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=8b3fbe89-b229-422e-af44-8486fd84c948 and 
https://boxborough.vod.castus.tv/vod/?video=69079d5f-b861-4fea-8eb5-980e9ada89d6, respectively.  
4This document, which contains a history of the Property, and the Public Bodies’ relationship to it, can be found at: 
https://www.boxborough-ma. gov/DocumentCenter/View/1528/72-Stow-Road-Site-History-and-Value-Information-
Packet. 
5 The Select Board executed the MOU on behalf of the Town. 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
At its meeting on January 18, 2024, the Housing Board discussed a proposal to build 
affordable housing on the Property, which would require that the Property be donated.  The 
Housing Board also discussed a proposal to sell the Property and direct the proceeds toward 
other housing priorities.  Following the discussion, the Housing Board voted to inform the 
Building Committee that it would agree to transfer the Property for $1.2 million, provided that 
payment is made in conformance with the MOU.   
 
Minutes of subsequent meetings of the Public Bodies reflect further discussions regarding 
use of the Property as the site of the public safety building.  The Building Committee met on 
January 31.  Following a discussion of multiple sites for the public safety building, the Building 
Committee voted in favor of locating the building on the Property.  There followed a discussion 
of next steps, including negotiations between the Select Board and the Housing Board, working 
with town counsel “to protect all groups,” preparing a warrant article for funding the land, and 
bringing construction designs to Fall Town Meeting.  Al Murphy, who was a member of both the 
Housing Board and the Building Committee, reported back to the Housing Board on February 15 
regarding actions of the Building Committee.  He expressed concern about the lack of clarity on 
how the transaction would be completed.  The Housing Board would not release the land until 
the funds were deposited with the Trust.   
 
The Building Committee met again on February 21 and discussed the Public Bodies’ 
roles relative to the sale of the Property as a location of the public safety building, including the 
“[p]rocess for formalizing agreed fair price” for the Property, and the logistics of bringing the 
matter to Town Meeting.  According to minutes of that meeting, Chair Kristin Hilberg suggested 
the formation of a “subcommittee of two members of the [Select Board, the Trust and the 
Housing Board] along with the [Town Administrator] meet and agree on a purchase price and 
document the MOU.”  It was decided that each of the Public Bodies would assign two members 
to the “subcommittee.”  (For ease of reference, we refer to this group hereinafter as the “MOU 
Group.”)   
 
At its February 26 meeting, the Select Board assigned Kristin Hilberg and Priya 
Sundaram to the MOU Group, referring to them as “Select Board representatives to the Fire 
Station land purchase working group.”  On March 7, the Trust accepted the Housing Board’s 
valuation of $1.2 million as fair compensation, following discussion of the matter.  The Trust 
also selected persons to serve on the MOU Group.  According to minutes, it designated by 
consensus Becky Neville and Les Fox to represent the Trust “in the Town Administrator’s 
advisory group to help guide the process going forward on disposition of [the Property].”  The 
Housing Board also continued to discuss transfer of the Property and the sale as a source of 
funding for other housing programs, at its March 14 and April 18 meetings.  Although two 
members of the Housing Board served as members on the MOU Group, it is unclear when or 
how they assumed this role.     
 
Town Administrator Michael Johns
6 attended a meeting of the Select Board held on 
Monday, March 25.  He reported that he had reviewed the MOU7 and discussed it with town 
 
6 For the sake of clarity, we refer to you hereinafter in the third person. 
7 Minutes reference a 2014 Memorandum of Agreement.  The MOU, executed on January 24, 2011, was filed with 
the Town Clerk on August 4, 2014.   
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
counsel.  He explained that pursuant to the MOU, if the Property were to be used for a purpose 
other than affordable housing, representatives from the Housing Board, the Trust and the Select 
Board would need to get together and “agree on a price.”  Town Administrator Johns reported to 
the Select Board that he met with the MOU Group on Thursday, March 21.  He asked them to 
advise him “what they plan on doing.”  At the Town Administrator’s March 21 meeting with the 
MOU Group, the representatives all agreed that it was in the best interest of affordable housing 
in the Town to transfer the Property to the Town for $1.2 million.  At the March 25 Select Board 
meeting, in response to comments from Finance Committee chair Maria Neyland, Town 
Administrator Johns stated that the agreement between the Public Bodies to transfer the Property 
for $1.2 million was a new development that occurred at his meeting with the MOU Group on 
March 21.  An article regarding location of the fire station is expected to be on the fall warrant.  
The Select Board voted to remove from the warrant for the May town meeting an article 
concerning acquisition of the Property for construction of a fire station.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The MOU Group did not contain or constitute a s ubcommittee of any of the 
Public Bodies.  
 
The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, which is defined, in relevant part, 
as “
a multiple member board, commission, committee or subcommittee within the executive or 
legislative branch or within any county, district, city, region or town, however created, elected, 
appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
The Open Meeting Law definition of a subcommittee includes “any multiple-member body 
created to advise or make recommendations to a public body.”  Id.  The complainant alleges that 
the pairs of members of each of the Public Bodies, who were selected to serve on the MOU 
Group, constituted subcommittees of their respective public body.   
 
Here,
 each of the Public Bodies assigned two of its members to the MOU Group.  The 
Public Bodies were not uniform in what they called the MOU Group8 or in articulating its 
charge.  These differences notwithstanding, the Public Bodies each assigned two members to 
work toward consummating the sale of the Property for use as a site for the public safety 
building.  In that respect, they created a multi-member body.  One body of six members was 
created, not three subcommittees of two members each.  Neither the MOU Group nor its 
members reported back to the Public Bodies to advise them or recommend a course of action.  
Instead, the MOU Group was formed as one body to see through the plan to convey the Property 
for purposes other than affordable housing, as contemplated by the MOU.  Thus, it was not a 
subcommittee. 
 
II. The MOU Group was
  a public body subject to the Open Meeting Law. 
 
For a multiple-member entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, it must satisfy three factors: 
 
 
8 Interestingly, Building Committee Chair Kristin Hilberg, who proposed creation of the MOU Group, called it a 
“subcommittee.” 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
See OML 2024-118; 2017-120; OML 2010-1.9  
 
 The MOU Group was created by the Building Committee, and each of the Public Bodies 
assigned two of its members to be a part of it.  Therefore, it is within government and satisfies 
the first factor.  It serves a public purpose, to wit, assisting in the transfer of the Property to a use 
other than affordable housing, pursuant to the terms of the MOU and as desired by the Public 
Bodies.  Therefore, the third factor is satisfied. 
 
 Whether the second factor is satisfied is a closer question.  In analyzing whether a body 
satisfies the second factor, we have looked to whether its purpose is to work collaboratively.  See 
OML 2024-86; OML 2021-95; OML 2016-116.  That a body chooses to take votes or issue 
formal reports is not, in and of itself, determinative on the issue of whether it satisfies the second 
factor.  See OML 2024-86 (finding that committee that was authorized to oversee audit, 
collectively provide input to auditor, and resolve issues that may arise during audit process is, 
based on totality of information, a public body); OML 2021-95 (finding that committee satisfied 
second factor where its purpose was to compile and analyze information and work 
collaboratively to provide recommendations to Town Manager and Select Board).  We have 
found the second factor unsatisfied where a committee serves an administrative function by 
compiling data and providing information to the Town but has no quorum requirements, takes no 
votes, makes no formal recommendations to a public body and is not empowered with decision-
making or policy-advisory authority.  See OML 2013-56.  Similarly, the second factor is not 
satisfied where a group has no set membership and lacks authority to take action, with Select 
Board members serving only as liaisons to keep the Select Board informed.  See OML 2023-149.  
See also OML 2023-231 (Stakeholder Group that had no fixed membership, had no quorum 
requirement, took no votes and was created to share information, ideas and advice with staff of 
the Department of Environmental Protection did not satisfy the second factor). 
 
 The MOU Group had a fixed membership; it was not a loose assembly  with a changing 
roster of attendees.  Members of the MOU Group did not merely collect information or serve as 
liaisons to staff or to a public body.  Rather, the MOU Group had authority to work together as a 
body to finalize the transfer of the Property for the Town for use as the site of a public safety 
building.  Unlike a body that simply provides advice to a public official, the MOU Group was 
tasked with “formalizing the agreed price” and working through the logistics of the transfer, 
including assisting in putting the matter to a vote at a fall Town Meeting.  According to Town 
Administrator Johns’s statement to the Select Board at its March 25 meeting, it was at his March 
21 meeting with the MOU Group that the representatives of the Public Bodies all agreed that it 
was in the Town’s best interest to transfer the Property to the Town for $1.2 million.  Based on 
the totality of the facts available to us, we find that the MOU Group was a public body. 
 
 
9 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
III. The MOU Group does not fall within the Connelly exception.  
 
In Connelly v. School Committee of Hanover, the Supreme Judicial Court recognized an 
exemption to the Open Meeting Law’s definition of a public body.  Connelly v. School 
Committee of Hanover, 409 Mass. 232, 235 (1991).  Under the Connelly exception, where an 
individual public official, who themself is not subject to the Open Meeting Law, creates a 
committee to advise them on a decision that they have the sole authority to make, that committee 
is not subject to the Open Meeting Law.  Id., at 235.  See also, e.g., OML 2019-71 (working 
group fit within Connelly exception where it only possessed authority to make recommendations 
to the Mayor).  Without explicitly invoking Connelly in the Public Bodies’ response, Town 
Administrator Johns maintains that he “invited representatives to advise me with status reports” 
because he needed information regarding a warrant article on transfer of the Property, and 
needed to decide whether to include the article on the May warrant or move it to the November 
warrant.  In the response, Town Administrator Johns denies that any decision was made at his 
meeting with the MOU Group on March 21.         
 
For the reasons set forth below, we find that the Connelly exception does not apply to the 
MOU Group.  The MOU Group was formed by the Building Committee to finalize sale of the 
Property.  It was not created by the Town Administrator to advise him on a decision that he had 
the sole authority to make.  Unlike the superintendent in Connelly, who could have screened and 
interviewed candidates by himself, Town Administrator Johns could not have acted alone to 
complete the transfer of the Property from the Housing Board to the Town.  The MOU required 
that the Public Bodies negotiate a fair price for sale of the Property to the Town if it were to be 
used for a purpose other than affordable housing and called on the Public Bodies to work 
together in “good faith” “to realize the intent of the [Housing Board], Trust and the Town.”  
Likewise, in this regard, Town Administrator Johns was unlike the Granby Town Administrator 
who proposed the creation of a “Granby Zoning Enforcement Committee,” composed of 
members of three different public bodies, which was granted no authority to take any particular 
action beyond advising the Building Inspector.  See OML 2019-88.  Where the MOU Group did 
not comply with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law relative to the March 21 meeting or 
any other meeting, including the requirements to post notice, provide public access or prepare 
minutes, it violated the Open Meeting Law. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
 For the reasons stated above, we find that the MOU Group  is a public body subject to the 
Open Meeting Law, and thus violated the Law by failing to comply with the Law’s requirements. 
We order immediate and future compliance with the Law’s requirements, and we caution that 
similar future violations could be considered evidence of intent to violate the Law.  
 
 We also
  order the MOU Group to create and approve, within sixty (60) days of receipt of 
this letter, minutes for the March 21, 2024, meeting and of any other meetings that it has held.  
The MOU Group should create these minutes to the best of its ability, through whatever means 
are available, including the memories and individual notations of the attendees. We also order 
the Committee to send a copy of the meeting minutes to Cindy Markowitz within sixty-five (65) 
days of receipt of this letter and to make those minutes available to the public upon request.  
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
Finally, if the MOU Group held other meetings, we order that it create accurate minutes, to the 
best of its ability, of those meetings as well.  
  
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Public Bodies.  Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any 
questions. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
       Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
cc: Kristin Hilberg, Chair, Boxborough Select Board (via email: 
 khilberg@boxborough-ma.gov) 
Jessi Robinson, Chair Boxborough Housing Board (via email: 
 jrobinson@boxborough-ma.gov) 
Les Fox, Chair, Boxborough Affordable Housing Trust (via email:  
 lfox@boxborough-ma.gov)  
Cindy Markowitz (via email: ) 
Boxborough Town Clerk (via email: rharris@boxborough-ma.gov) 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
