===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 TEL: (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
October 4, 2021 
 
OML 2021 – 138 
 
 
Mark R. Reich, Esq. 
KP Law, P.C.  
101 Arch Street 
Boston, MA 02110 
 
By email only:  
 
 RE:        Open Meeting Law Complaints 
 
Dear Attorney Reich: 
 
This office received two complaints from Patrick Higgins on July 9, 2021, alleging that 
the Somerset Zoning Board of Appeals (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 
30A, §§ 18-25.1  The first complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about June 7; the 
second complaint was originally filed with the Board on or about July 1; and you responded to 
both complaints, on behalf of the Board, by letter dated July 9.  The first complaint alleges that 
the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include sufficient detail on the notice for 
the Board meeting held on May 20.  The second complaint alleges that the Board failed to timely 
respond to the first Open Meeting Law complaint.  
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law in the ways 
alleged.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaints, the Board’s 
response to the complaints, and the complaints filed with our office requesting further review.  In 
addition, we reviewed the notices and minutes of the Board meetings held on May 20, June 10, 
and July 1, as well as video recordings of those three meetings.2   
 
FACTS 
 
1 All dates in this letter refer to the year 2021. 
2 A video recording of the Board meeting held on May 20 is available at 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1_6DHozZFuY; a video recording of the Board meeting held on June 10 is 
available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hI8C1Ep7328; and a video recording of the Board meeting held on 
July 1 is available at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n7NIdDokTfo.   

===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
We find the facts as follows.  On May 18 at 4:00 P.M., the Board posted notice of a 
meeting to be held on Thursday, May 20 at 6:00 P.M.  The notice listed 12 topics, including 
“Review and approve decisions #10, #11, #12, #13, and #15.” 
 
The May 20 meeting was held as planned and all members participated remotely.  During 
the meeting, the Board held several public hearings, briefly discussed proposed changes to the 
zoning by-laws, approved four invoices, and approved minutes of the Board meeting held on 
April 15.  In addition, Board member James Pimental made a motion to “memorialize” decision 
numbers 10, 11, 12, 13 and 15, which was unanimously approved.3  The Board did not further 
discuss or specifically identify the subject matter of these decisions.  
 
On or about June 7, the complainant filed the first Open Meeting Law complaint alleging 
that the Board posted an insufficiently detailed notice for the May 20 meeting.  During a June 10 
meeting, the Board reviewed this Open Meeting Law complaint and unanimously voted to “ask 
Town Counsel to respond” to the complaint.    
 
On or about July 1, the complainant filed a second Open Meeting Law complaint 
regarding the Board’s failure to respond to his first complaint within 14 business days.  During a 
July 1 meeting, the Board discussed both complaints and acknowledged that there had been an 
oversight in failing to advise Town Legal Counsel that the Board had voted during its June 10 
meeting to authorize Town Counsel to respond to the first complaint.  The Board thereafter 
responded to both Open Meeting Law complaints on July 9. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
I. The Board Posted an Insufficiently Detailed Notice for its May 20 Meeting. 
 
The Open Meeting Law requires that public bodies post notice of every meeting “at least 
48 hours prior to such meeting” and that every notice include “the date, time and place of such 
meeting and a listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will be discussed at the 
meeting.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 20(b).  Public bodies are required to list topics on a notice with 
“sufficient specificity to reasonably advise the public of the issues to be discussed at the 
meeting.”  940 CMR 29.03(1) (b).  We generally consider a topic sufficiently specific when a 
reasonable member of the public could read the topic and understand the anticipated nature of 
the public body’s discussion.  See OML 2015-35.4   
 
 
3 We note that the minutes of the Board meetings held on May 20 failed to record the roll call vote of each member.  
The Attorney General’s Regulations require that “all votes taken during any meeting in which a member participates 
remotely must be by roll call vote,” even if a vote is unanimous.  940 CMR 29.10(7)(c); see OML 2020-82; OML 
2015-145; OML 2013-195.  We recognize that the Board conducted all votes by roll call during this remote meeting, 
but the minutes of the meeting failed to record a roll call vote.  We remind the Board of its obligations under the 
law. 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
The complaint alleges that the Board failed to include sufficient detail with respect to the 
five decisions listed on the notice for the Board’s May 20 meeting.  Here, the notice for the 
Board’s May 20 meeting listed the following topic: “Review and approve decisions #10, #11, 
#12, #13, and #15.”  During the May 20 meeting, the Board approved the five decisions without 
specifically discussing or identifying the subject matter of the decisions.  We find that the Board 
violated the Open Meeting Law by failing to include on the notice any specific details about the 
decisions that the chair anticipated discussing.  See OML 2021-36; OML 2018-96; OML 2017-
33.  The notice must include details about each decision, including the identity of the applicant 
and the location under consideration, and/or a description of the application that is the subject of 
the decision.  See OML 2011-11.  This level of detail is intended to provide members of the 
public with sufficient information to understand what business is being transacted by the public 
body and the opportunity to attend and observe deliberations in which they are interested.  See 
OML 2016-167.  The Board suggests that any member of the public may contact the Board for 
additional details about decisions being considered by the Board.  The Board is required to 
include specific information on or with the notice itself; it is not acceptable for a meeting notice 
to refer members of the public to another place to find the required information.  See OML 2019-
22; Town of Swansea v. Healey, 2018 WL 8692757, at *3 (Suffolk Sup. Ct. October 29, 2018).  
We acknowledge the Board’s commitment to listing more specific detail on all future notices.     
 
II. The Board Violated the Open Meeting Law by Failing to Timely Respond 
to an Open Meeting Law Complaint. 
 
The second complaint concerns the Board’s failure to respond to the first Open Meeting 
Law complaint in the timeframe required by the law.  The Open Meeting Law requires that 
within 14 days of receipt of a complaint, the public body review the complaint’s allegations; take 
remedial action, if appropriate; and send to the Attorney General a copy of the complaint and a 
description of any remedial action taken.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  A public 
body must meet to review the complaint and formulate a response, or meet to delegate that 
authority, and respond to the complaint within 14 business days.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); OML 
2017-69; OML 2012-90.  
 
Here, the Board reviewed the complaint during its June 10 meeting and voted to delegate 
Town Counsel to respond.  However, the Board inadvertently failed to notify Town Counsel and 
did not respond to the complaint until July 9 – 22 business days after the complaint was filed.  
Even though the Board reviewed the complaint within 14 business days, it must also respond to 
the complaint within that timeframe, unless it secures an extension from the Director of the 
Division of Open Government.  G.L. c. 30A, § 23(b); 940 CMR 29.05(5).  Because the Board 
failed to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 14 business days, we find that it 
violated the Open Meeting Law.   
 
We must determine whether this violation was, as the complainant urges, an intentional 
one.  See G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  An intentional violation is an “act or omission by a public body 
or a member thereof, in knowing violation of [the Open Meeting Law].”  940 CMR 29.02.  An 
intentional violation may be found where the public body acted with deliberate ignorance of the 
law’s requirement or has previously been advised that certain conduct violates the Open Meeting 
Law.  Id.  This Office has not issued any determinations that advised the Board of the proper 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
procedure and timeframe for responding to an Open Meeting Law complaint.  Because we find 
no evidence that the Board acted with deliberate ignorance of the law but rather its delay was due 
to an unintentional oversight, and where the Board had not been notified of its obligations prior 
to the events addressed in this letter, we find that this violation was not intentional.    
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
failing to list on the notice for its May 20 meeting sufficient detail with respect to the five 
decisions it planned to approve and failing to respond to an Open Meeting Law complaint within 
14 business days.  We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law, and caution that future similar violations may be considered evidence of intent to 
violate the law. 
 
We now consider the complaints addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or the 
Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
Sincerely, 
  
 
KerryAnne Kilcoyne 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
   
 
cc:       Patrick Higgins – By email only:  
Somerset Zoning Board of Appeals c/o Town Administrator Richard Brown – By email 
only:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any member 
of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial review 
through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d). The complaint must 
be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
 
 
 
