===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
November 7, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 181 
 
 
VIA EMAIL ONLY 
 
Allison Valton, Esq.  
Mead, Talerman & Costa, LLC 
730 Main Street, 1F 
Millis, MA 02054 
allison@mtclawyers.com  
 
 
 RE: Open M
 eeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Valton: 
 
This office received a complaint from Karen King on May 23, 2025,
1 alleging that the 
Monson Planning Board (the “Board”) violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. 
The complaint was originally filed with the Board on April 17, and, after an extension of time 
granted by our office, you responded on behalf of the Board by letter dated May 21. The 
complaint alleges that a Board meeting held on April 15 was inaccessible to the public where the 
meeting was held in a room that could not accommodate the number of people who wished to 
attend and where members of the public could not hear the proceedings.
2 
 
Following our review, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law where a 
portion of its April 15 meeting was inaccessible to members of the public. In reaching this 
determination, we reviewed the Open Meeting Law complaint, the Board’s response, the request 
for further review, and a video recording of the Board’s April 15 meeting.
3 
 
1 All dates are in 2025, unless otherwise stated. 
2 The complaint also notes a deficiency with the legal notice for a public hearing that was part of the April 15 
meeting. To the extent this was intended as an additional allegation, we note that, even if true, an allegation 
regarding the notice for a public hearing would not constitute a violation of the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, 
§§ 18-25, because it concerns an error with a public hearing notice, not an open meeting notice. Accordingly, we 
decline to review whether notice for the public hearing was sufficient. See OML Declination 1-25-16 (Nahant 
Housing Authority Board of Commissioners). 
3 A video recording of the Board’s April 15 meeting can be viewed at https://m-
pact.tv/maestrov/app/client/webSite/index.php?s=3&category=68. 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts to be as follows. The Board posted notice for a meeting to be held on 
April 15 in the Select Board Meeting Room at the Monson Town Office Building, located at 110 
Main Street in Monson. The topics for discussion at the meeting consisted of three public 
hearings. The first related to a request for a special permit and site plan approval for 31 State 
Street. The second related to a proposed bylaw amendment regarding home occupation and the 
schedule of use regulations. The third related to a proposed zoning bylaw amendment to allow 
residential single-family cluster housing.  
 
The Board held its April 15 meeting as scheduled in a room with an occupancy limit of 
49. Prior to and during the meeting, the Board’s Chair was aware that the number of individuals 
in attendance exceeded the occupancy limit for the meeting room and that the crowd was 
overflowing into the hallway. At the beginning of the meeting, the Chair explained that there was 
a problem with respect to the size of the crowd and the legal occupancy limit of the meeting 
room but noted that it was his belief that most attendees were there to observe the public hearing 
regarding the proposed cluster zoning amendment. The Chair further explained that the cluster 
zoning amendment was going to be withdrawn by the proponent and that the Chair anticipated 
most of the attendees would leave once that occurred. Therefore, the Chair explained, the Board 
would open and continue the first two public hearings—the ones concerning 31 State Street and 
home occupation—then open the cluster zoning hearing and allow the proponent to withdraw the 
proposal, believing that at that time the majority of the crowd would leave and the Board could 
turn back to the other two public hearings.  
 
 The Chair proceeded with this plan, opening and continuing the first  two public hearings. 
During this time, there were exchanges between the Chair and the public regarding the fact that 
the meeting room could not accommodate the crowd and some attendees could not hear the 
meeting. At one point, a member of the public explained to the Chair that individuals by the door 
to the meeting room could not hear what was happening and the Chair asked that individual to 
please relay to those attendees that the proposal they were there for was being withdrawn. The 
Chair then called on a representative of the proponent for the cluster zoning amendment. The 
representative explained that the proponent of the amendment would be withdrawing the 
proposed amendment, explaining the reasoning for, and circumstances leading to, the 
withdrawal. The representative further explained that the proponent intended to present a new 
proposal in the future.  
 
Following these comments, the Chair formally opened the public hearing for the cluster 
zoning amendment and the representative again addressed the Board, explaining why the 
proponent was withdrawing the proposal and the proponent’s intention to present a new proposal 
in the future. The Chair confirmed a few facts with the representative and asked that someone 
make a motion. A motion was made and seconded and the Board then voted to accept the 
proponent’s written request to withdraw the proposed amendment. 
 
Thereafter, members of the public requested, and were granted, the opportunity to 
address the Board, and the proponent’s representative spoke one more time. After these 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
additional comments, the Chair thanked everyone for attending the meeting that evening and 
many attendees began leaving the meeting room. At this point the Chair asked someone to tell 
attendees in the hallway that the proposed cluster zoning amendment had been withdrawn.  
 
Finally, at approximately 23 minutes into the meeting, as individuals continued to leave 
the meeting room and there was a short break in the meeting, a police officer arrived to tell the 
Board, at the request of the Building Commissioner, that the meeting room was over capacity. 
During this exchange, the police officer noted that there was an overflow room but that there was 
no television on in the overflow room and that it did not look like the room had been set up for 
an overflow crowd. In response, the Chair confirmed that the overflow room likely had not been 
set up. During this time, there was also discussion among attendees about a television in the 
hallway with someone saying that they could hear better out in the hallway than in the meeting 
room, and another individual asserting that that was because they were streaming the meeting on 
their telephone, not because there was sound coming from the hallway television. Eventually, the 
Chair declared that there were fewer than 49 individuals in the meeting room and the Board 
turned to the other public hearings scheduled for that evening.   
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Law requires that meetings of a public body be properly noticed and that they be 
open to t
he public, unless a lawful executive session is properly convened. G.L. c. 30A, §§ 20(a)-
(b), 21. A “meeting” is defined, in relevant part, as “a deliberation by a public body with respect 
to any matter within the body’s jurisdiction.” G.L. c. 30A, § 18. The Open Meeting Law defines 
“deliberation” broadly as “an oral or written communication through any medium, including 
electronic mail, between or among a quorum of a public body on any public business within its 
jurisdiction.” Id. However, the Law further explains that “‘deliberation’ shall not include the 
distribution of a meeting agenda, scheduling information or distribution of other procedural 
meeting [information] or the distribution of reports or documents that may be discussed at a 
meeting, provided that no opinion of a member is expressed.” Id. A one-way communication 
from one public body member to a quorum on matters within the body’s jurisdiction is 
deliberation, even if no other public body member responds. See OML 2020-136; OML 2016-
104; OML 2015-33; OML 2012-73. We have explained that discussion of a public body’s 
operation is a matter within the body’s jurisdiction and that such discussions must therefore be 
reserved for a properly noticed meeting. See OML 2022-161; OML 2021-130; OML 2022- 129; 
OML 2016-81. 
 
At t
he core of the Open Meeting Law is the requirement that meetings of public bodies be 
open and accessible to the public. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(a) (except when meeting in executive 
session, “all meetings of a public body shall be open to the public.”). Generally, access to a 
meeting includes the opportunity to be physically present and access must include the 
opportunity to see and hear what is being said by, to, and among, the members of the public 
body. See OML 2017-135; OML 2016-54; OML 2012-66.
4 Furthermore, public bodies must 
make reasonable accommodations for larger-than-usual or overflow crowds; such 
accommodations could include providing for an overflow room where attendees can witness the 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
meeting as it occurs or by moving the meeting to a location that can accommodate the crowd. 
Compa
re OML 2024-14 (finding no violation where the board took steps to accommodate a 
potentially large crowd by ensuring that attendees could watch the meeting on monitors in a 
different room, and noting that, although not ultimately necessary, the body was prepared to 
reschedule the meeting if the building could not accommodate the number of people who 
showed) and OML 2023-205 (finding no violation where the committee changed the meeting 
location to accommodate a larger-than-usual crowd) with OML 2021-91(finding that the board 
failed to make reasonable efforts to accommodate the larger-than-usual crowd, explaining that 
“the Board made no effort to address the capacity issue during the meeting, nor did the Board 
cancel and reschedule the meeting . . . .”) and OML 2017-135 (finding that the board violated the 
Open Meeting Law where the meeting location could not accommodate the crowd and the board 
made no effort to secure a larger room or otherwise ensure “that the entire audience could both 
observe and hear the discussion, either by requesting adequate amplification or by streaming a 
live video broadcast of the meeting outside of the room”).  
 
The
 complaint alleges that the Board’s April 15 meeting was inaccessible to the public 
where the meeting was held in a room that could not accommodate the number of people who 
wished to attend the meeting and where some members of the public could not hear the meeting. 
Additionally, the complaint alleges that although there was a television in the hallway which 
displayed the meeting, for some portion of the meeting there was no sound and so individuals in 
the hallway were also unable to hear the proceedings. The Board does not dispute these 
contentions and acknowledges that the Chair “was informed that members of the public who 
came to attend the meeting exceeded the meeting room capacity and were filling the adjoining 
hallway,” and that “[t]hese members of the public also informed the Chair that they were unable 
to hear and see the meeting adequately, given the overflow conditions and lack of overflow room 
availability.” Notwithstanding these admissions, the Board asserts that it did not violate the Open 
Meeting Law and that the public was not denied access to the April 15 meeting. Focusing solely 
on the portion of the meeting related to the cluster zoning amendment, the Board asserts that the 
public was not denied access to the meeting because the Board did not deliberate regarding the 
cluster zoning amendment. In support of this contention, the Board asserts that withdrawal of the 
cluster zoning amendment was “similar to other purely administrative tasks exempted from the 
definition of deliberation by statute” and that “[t]he Planning Board never communicated with 
one another regarding the petition.” 
 
We find that a portion of the Board’s April 15 meeting was inaccessible to the public, in 
violation of the Open Meeting Law. It is clear from the video recording and the Board’s own 
admissions that the meeting location could not accommodate the crowd that wished to attend the 
meeting and that some members of the public were unable to hear the meeting. However, despite 
these circumstances, and even though there was apparently an overflow room available, the 
Board made no effort to address the capacity issue or the fact that members of the public could 
not hear, nor did the Board cancel and reschedule the meeting. Instead, the Board attempted to 
move quickly through the first part of the meeting to the withdrawal of the cluster zoning 
amendment in the hopes that enough people would then leave the meeting so that the occupancy 
and accessibility problems would resolve on their own. This was insufficient to comply with the 
Open Meeting Law. The public had a right to hear and witness the Board’s entire meeting, 
including procedural matters such as the call to order, the Chair’s review of the matters to be 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
addressed that evening, that it was anticipated that the cluster zoning amendment would be 
withdrawn, and the Chair’s explanation of how the Board planned to proceed with the meeting, 
as well as the opening and continuation of the first two public hearings and the withdrawal of the 
cluster zoning amendment.5  
 
 We also specifically reject the Board’s assertion that it did not deliberate regarding 
withdrawal of the cluster zoning amendment because the withdrawal was “purely administrative” 
and therefore fell within the exception to the definition of “deliberation” for administrative tasks 
and the Board’s assertion that it did not communicate regarding the amendment. First, we do not 
agree that withdrawing a proposed bylaw amendment is “purely administrative” and akin to 
distributing a meeting agenda, scheduling information, or a document to be discussed at a 
meeting. Furthermore, it is clear that the Board did not view this as purely administrative either 
where it found it necessary to formally open the public hearing, hear from the proponent’s 
representative, and then vote to accept the withdrawal. Second, we expressly find that the Board 
deliberated regarding the cluster zoning amendment where the purpose for the hearing was read 
aloud, the proponent’s representative was asked to address the Board, matters related to the 
withdrawal were clarified by the Chair, and the Board formally voted to accept the withdrawal.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons stated above, we find that the Board violated the Open Meeting Law by 
holding a meeting on April 15 that was, for a significant portion of the meeting, inaccessible to 
members of the public. We order the Board’s immediate and future compliance with the Open 
Meeting Law and caution that similar future violations may be considered evidence of an intent 
to violate the Law. Because a complete recording of the April 15 meeting is available online, we 
do not order additional remedial action.  
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved. This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with the Board or with 
our office. Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter.    
 
Sincerely, 
        
       Elizabeth Carnes Flynn 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
 
 
5 We remind the Board that when a meeting is being recorded, the Chair must announce at the beginning of the 
meeting that it is being recorded. G.L. c. 30A, § 20(f). This is true even when the recording is made by the public 
body itself, including recordings made for public broadcasting or administrative purposes. See OML 2022-198.  

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
cc: Monson Planning Board c/o Jennifer Wolowicz, Monson Town Administrator 
(via email: jwolowicz@monson-ma.gov)  
 Mary Watson, Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@monson-ma.gov) 
Karen King  
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
