===PAGE 1===
MARTHA COAKLEY 
ATTORNEY GENERAL 
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON , MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
(617)727-2200 
www.mass.gov/ago 
David S. Lawless, Esq. 
Robinson Donovan, P.C. 
1500 Main Street, Suite 1600 
P.O. Box 15609 
Springfield, MA 01115 
March 13,2014 
OML 2014-24 
RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
Dear Attorney Lawless: 
This office received a complaint from John O'Rourke, dated October 18, 2013, alleging 
that the Hampshire Council of Governments Executive Committee (the "Executive Committee") 
and the Hampshire Council of Governments (the "Council") violated the Open Meeting Law, 
G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25. The complaint specifically alleges that between June 1,2013 and August 
19, 2013, the Executive Committee and the Council met and voted in executive session for an 
improper purpose, including the "dismissal, discharge or termination of the employment of the 
Director of Electricity."1 The complaint was originally filed with the Council on or about 
September 14, 2013. We received your response on behalf of the Council and the Executive 
Committee in a letter dated September 30, 2013. 
Following our review, we find that the Executive Committee violated the Open Meeting 
Law by holding discussions in executive session on three occasions in August 2013 that were not 
appropriate under the cited executive session purpose. We do not find a violation by the 
Council. In reaching this determination, we reviewed the September 14, 2013 complaint filed 
with the Council; the Council's September 30, 2013 response; and the October 18, 2013 
complaint filed with our office. Additionally, we reviewed the open and executive session 
minutes of the Executive Committee's August 8, 2013; August 15, 2013; and August 22, 2013 
meetings. Finally, we reviewed your December 9, 2013 letter sent in response to questions 
posed by our office, and letters addressed to our office from Mr. O'Rourke dated October 25, 
1 The complaint filed with our office includes allegations that the Council violated other laws, including wage and 
employment laws. Because this decision concerns only compliance with the Open Meeting Law, we do not address 
these additional allegations. 
===PAGE 2===
2013; December 20, 2103; December 27, 2013; and December 28, 2013. 
FACTS 
The Council is an energy supplier under a license granted by the Massachusetts 
Department of Public Utilities pursuant to G.L. c. 164, § IF. The Council is also a licensed 
energy broker under a license granted by the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities. The 
Council describes its role as negotiating the best possible terms and conditions for its customers 
for the supply of electricity, and supporting environmental protections, energy efficiency, and 
renewable energy development. 
John O'Rourke served as the Director of Electricity for the Council until August 19, 
2013. During the late summer of 2013, the Council's Executive Committee met several times in 
executive session citing G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(10) as the basis for its closed door discussions. In 
those meetings, the Council discussed the reorganization of its operations. Mr. O'Rourke was 
not present during, nor was he invited to attend, any of these meetings. 
The notice for the Executive Committee's August 8, 2013 meeting listed 15 items, 
including "Executive Session 8-5-1) In accordance with MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21 (10)." 
During the meeting, the Executive Committee entered into executive session "in accordance with 
MGL Chapter 30A, Section 21 (10), to discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-
sensitive or other proprietary information, and not to reconvene in open session." Once in 
executive session, the Executive Committee discussed with Council Executive Director Todd 
Ford the state of electricity finances and a budget shortfall. Executive Director Ford 
recommended taking all of the technical responsibilities of the electricity program and putting 
them into the hands of experienced consultants, and reducing staff to sales, clerical and 
accounting, with all other services provided by the consultants. Executive Director Ford 
explained that he had approached consultants to discuss the services they would provide to the 
Electricity Department. He then told the Board that he had not discussed his proposed 
reorganization with the Electricity Department's employees. Executive Committee members 
expressed concern about approaching current customers who had experienced losses in the 
program. Finally, the Executive Committee discussed interrogatories from the Attorney 
General's Office (from a division other than the one reviewing this complaint). As part of this 
discussion, the Council discussed withdrawing its municipal aggregation petitions to the 
Department of Public Utilities and developing new contracts. The Executive Committee voted to 
voluntarily withdraw the petitions. The Executive Committee also agreed to revisit the proposed 
reorganization of the electricity program during its August 15, 2013 meeting. 
During the Executive Committee's August 15, 2013 meeting, the Executive Committee 
entered into executive session "in accordance with MGL Chapter 3 OA, Section 21 (10), to 
discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary information, 
and not to reconvene in open session." The purpose of the meeting was to further discuss 
proposed changes in the Electricity Department and strategy regarding municipal aggregation. 
The Executive Committee discussed its plan to withdraw and resubmit the municipal aggregation 
2 
===PAGE 3===
petitions. The Executive Committee then discussed Executive Director Ford's proposal to 
reorganize the Electricity Department. Executive Director Ford reviewed a breakdown of 
current costs, including staffing, and savings from reducing staff and moving services to a 
professional consultant. Customized Energy Solution. The minutes state that, "Ford asked for a 
vote of support by the Committee - to re-organize the Electricity Department by eliminating the 
Director of Electricity position thereby laying-off John O'Rourke and to continue to work with 
consultants to finalize a contract." The Executive Committee then voted unanimously to 
"express support of Ford's plan to eliminate the position of Electricity Director. Given the need 
for moving quickly, the Councilors agreed that O'Rourke should be given two [weeks'] pay." 
On August 19, 2013, Executive Director Ford informed Mr. O'Rourke that his position 
had been eliminated and that he was being laid off, effective that day. 
During the Executive Committee's August 22, 2013 meeting, the Executive Committee 
entered into executive session "in accordance with MGL Chapter 3OA, Section 21 (10), to 
discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary information, 
and not to reconvene in open session." During the executive session, the Executive Committee 
discussed the information about the reorganization that it would present to the full Council at a 
meeting later that evening. The Executive Committee then voted unanimously that, "non-
sensitive re-organization information presented during the August 8, 2013, and August 15, 2013, 
Executive Sessions pertaining to the current organization and proposed reorganization and 
financial history of the Council's electricity program be presented at the August 22, 2013, Full 
Council meeting." 
During the Council's August 22, 2013 open meeting. Executive Director Ford presented 
the Executive Committee's plan to reorganize the Electricity Department, including eliminating 
the Electricity Director position. It appears that the entirety of the Executive Committee's 
executive session discussions regarding the reorganization of the electricity department was 
considered "non-sensitive" at this time as no portion of the discussion was withheld from the 
presentation. The Council discussed the reorganization and the financial and budgetary matters 
that prompted the proposal. The Council then voted "to support the reorganization of the 
Electricity Department," with one Council member dissenting. 
The minutes of the Executive Committee's August 9, 15, and 22, 2013 executive session 
meetings were publicly released on October 24, 2013. 
DISCUSSION 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted "to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based." Ghiglione v. School Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978). Flowever, the Open Meeting Law permits public bodies 
to enter executive session and conduct deliberations outside of the public view for ten specific 
purposes. G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a). The exceptions to the general rule that meetings of a public 
body shall be open are narrowly construed. See McRea v. Flaherty. 71 Mass. App. Ct. 637, 641 
3 
===PAGE 4===
(2008); Martin v. Rent Control Bd. of Cambridge, 19 Mass. App. Ct. 745, 747 (1985). The 
public body bears the burden of demonstrating it is entitled to the reason for the executive 
session. See District Attorney for the N. Dist. v. School Comm. of Wayland. 455 Mass. 561, 566 
(2009); Goodrow v. Lane Bryant. Inc.. 432 Mass. 165, 170 (2000) (party claiming exemption 
bears burden to show entitlement). 
One appropriate purpose for executive session is: 
To discuss trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or other proprietary 
information provided in the course of activities conducted by a governmental body as an 
energy supplier under a license granted by the department of public utilities pursuant to 
section IF of chapter 164, in the course of activities conducted as a municipal aggregator 
under section 134 of said chapter 164 or in the course of activities conducted by a 
cooperative consisting of governmental entities organized pursuant to section 136 of said 
chapter 164, when such governmental body, municipal aggregator or cooperative 
determines that such disclosure will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in 
relation to other entities making, selling or distributing electric power and energy. 
G.L. c. 3OA, § 21(a)(10) ("Purpose 10"); see also OML 2012-81.2 
Another executive session purpose allows a public body to enter into executive session 
"to discuss the reputation, character, physical condition or mental health, rather than professional 
competence of an individual, or to discuss the discipline or dismissal of, or complaints or charges 
brought against, a public officer, employee, staff member or individual." G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1) 
("Purpose 1"). The individual to be discussed during a Purpose 1 executive session must be 
notified in writing by the public body at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive session, 
and has the right to be present during deliberations, has the right to have counsel present, and has 
the right to speak on his or her own behalf. Id. 
The issue raised by this complaint is whether the Executive Committee's discussions 
regarding reorganization of the Electricity Department and elimination of the Electricity Director 
Position were proper under Purpose 10, or if the Executive Committee should have cited Purpose 
1 instead and afforded Mr. O'Rourke the opportunity to be present during its discussions.3 The 
Council defended the Executive Committee's decision to hold a closed door discussion pursuant 
to Purpose 10 in its December 9, 2013 letter to our office. The Council argues, generally, that 
the Executive Committee's executive session discussions concerned "confidential, competitively 
sensitive" information because open discussion of these matters "would adversely affect its 
position with respect to the Council's competitors." The Council provides few specifics to 
justify its classification of the discussion that occurred on August 8, 2013 and August 15, 2013 
2 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General's website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
3 The complaint does not allege that any other portion of the Executive Committee's executive session discussions 
were improper, thus we discuss only the portions at issue. 
4 
===PAGE 5===
as competitively sensitive, but does state that "finances, customers' experience, product offerings 
and price structure, marketing strategy, regulatory issues, and organizational structure and 
functions" are "all part of a single strategic process," and that it would be "at an extreme 
competitive disadvantage if such information had to be discussed in open meeting." 
The Council's letter identifies general topics that might be appropriate for discussion 
under executive session Purpose 10. However, the Council has not presented specific facts to 
support its contention that its discussion of restructuring the Electricity Department and 
terminating the Director concerned "trade secrets or confidential, competitively-sensitive or 
other proprietary information." See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(10). Furthermore, the Council has not 
provided sufficient evidence to support its contention that having this discussion in open session 
would have "adversely affect[ed] its ability to conduct business in relation to other entities 
making, selling or distributing electric power and energy" as required for application of the 
exemption. Id In its December 9, 2013 letter to our office, the Council notes that, in a prior 
determination, our office explained that the law "gives the public body invoking purpose 10 
discretion to determine when disclosure of trade secrets or competitively-sensitive information 
will adversely affect its ability to conduct business in relation to other entities making, selling, or 
distributing electric power and energy," and that the law "provides these types of public bodies 
wide latitude to determine what information may be discussed outside the public's view." OML 
2012-81. While the law does provide these public bodies wide latitude to decide when to enter 
into executive session to discuss trade secrets or competitively sensitive information, that latitude 
is not unlimited. Public bodies must still be able to demonstrate that the information being 
discussed is a trade secret or competitively sensitive information. 
The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court has identified six factors for consideration in 
determining whether something is trade secret: the extent to which the information is known 
outside of the party's business; the extent to which it is known by employees and others involved 
in the party's business; the extent of the measures taken by the party to guard the secrecy of the 
information; the value of the information to the party and to its competitors; the amount of effort 
or money expended by the party in developing the information; and the ease or difficulty with 
which others could properly acquire or duplicate the information. Jet Spray Cooler. Inc. v. 
Crampton, 361 Mass. 835, 840 (1972). Additionally, the Restatement of Unfair Competition, 
Section 39, defines a trade secret as "any information that can be used in the operation of a 
business or other enterprise and that is sufficiently valuable and secret to afford an actual or 
potential economic advantage over others." The Council's response to the complaint fails to 
present any specific detail that would satisfy the above listed requirements. Of greatest 
importance, the Council has failed to demonstrate the need for secrecy regarding the 
reorganization of the Electricity Department. 
The Council argues that its discussion fell within executive session Purpose 10 in part 
because its bargaining position with respect to the third party consultant identified would have 
been harmed by prematurely announcing the Executive Committee's determination regarding 
"Ford's plan." It is not clear how identifying in open session the consultant that the Council had 
been bargaining with would have been detrimental. The Council did not discuss—at least not as 
5 
===PAGE 6===
reflected in the executive session minutes—any terms for negotiation with the consultant. The 
consultant was merely identified for the role it would play in the new organization. The 
Executive Director had been in contact with the consultant to discuss retaining its services, so it 
would not have been detrimental to the Board's negotiating position to publicly disclose the 
potential consultant's general role. Furthermore, during the Executive Committee's August 22, 
2013 meeting, the Executive Committee reviewed the reorganization proposal it had considered 
in executive session on August 8, 2013 and August 15, 2013 and decided to publicly disclose the 
plan to the full Council for approval during that evening's open session. It does not appear that 
there was any material change in circumstances during the two weeks between when the issue 
was discussed in executive session and when it was publicly disclosed, and the Council has 
provided no clear explanation as to how it would have been put at a competitive disadvantage by 
holding a public discussion prior to the date the reorganization proposal was made public. 
Rather, it appears that the primary reason for secrecy was to prevent employees of the Electricity 
Department from learning about the proposed reorganization, rather than to protect this 
information from disclosure to competitors. 
Accordingly, we find that the Executive Committee's discussions about reorganizing the 
Electricity Department should have been held in open session. Because the Executive 
Committee considered the dismissal of an employee, and Mr. O'Rourke's December 28, 2013 
letter also suggests the discussion concerned a complaint brought against him, it could have 
opted to hold some of this discussion in executive session under Purpose 1. However the 
Executive Committee did not afford Mr. O'Rourke the rights required when a body wishes to 
utilize Purpose 1, namely notification in writing at least 48 hours prior to the proposed executive 
session, the right to be present during deliberations, the right to have counsel present, and the 
right to speak on his own behalf. See G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(1); OML 2013-28; OML 2011-39.4 
Thus, the executive session was not properly held under this purpose either. 
CONCLUSION 
We find that the Executive Committee violated the Open Meeting Law by holding 
discussions in executive session on three occasions in August 2013 that were not appropriate 
under executive session Purpose 10. Mr. O'Rourke has requested that this office order he be 
reinstated without loss of compensation, seniority, tenure or other benefits, pursuant to G.L. c. 
30A, § 23(c)(5). While the Executive Committee violated the law by holding these discussions 
behind closed doors, the Council considered the proposal in open session on August 22, 2013 
4 In its December 9, 2013 letter to our office, the Council argues that the Executive Director, and not the Council or 
its Executive Committee, was the appointing authority for the former position of Electricity Director, and therefore, 
any question regarding the Council's compliance with the Open Meeting Law should not affect the Executive 
Director's decision to dismiss Mr. O'Rourke on August 19, 2013. Mr. O'Rourke disputes this contention, arguing 
that the Council did in fact hold the authority to dismiss employees. We take no position as to who had the authority 
to dismiss Mr. O'Rourke or eliminate his position. We note, however, that the decision to dismiss Mr. O'Rourke 
and eliminate his position was made by the Executive Director with the support of the Executive Committee, during 
an improper executive session on August 15, 2013. Regardless of who had the ultimate authority, both the 
Executive Director and the Executive Committee were clearly involved in this process. 
6 
===PAGE 7===
and voted "to support the reorganization of the Electricity Department," understanding that this 
meant eliminating Mr. O'Rourke's position. Because Mr. O'Rourke was terminated on that date 
following discussion and a vote during a properly posted open meeting, we decline to order his 
reinstatement, but believe he is entitled to compensation for three days of employment 
representing the period between his termination and the date of the August 22, 2013 meeting. 
We therefore refer this matter for a hearing pursuant to 940 CMR 29.07(3) and recommend that 
the Executive Committee be ordered to compensate him in that amount. We invite counsel for 
the Executive Committee to contact this office to discuss the hearing process. Additionally, we 
order the Executive Committee's immediate and future compliance with the Open Meeting Law, 
and caution that a similar future violation may be considered evidence of an intentional violation 
of the law. 
We now consider this matter closed. If you have any questions regarding this letter, 
please do not hesitate to contact our office at (617) 963-2540. 
Sincerely x/, J ' 
/ 
Sclarsic 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
cc: Hampshire Council of Governments 
John O'Rourke 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c). A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by this order may obtain judicial review through an action 
filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. BOA, § 23(d). The complaint must be filed in 
Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of this order. 
7 