===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
 
 
October 3, 2023 
 
       OML 2023 – 166 
 
 
VIA EMAIL  
 
Jeanne Russo 
Clerk, Berkley Board of Assessors 
berkleyboa@berkleyma.us 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaints 
Dear Ms. Russo: 
This office received a complaint from Wendy Cochrane on April 28, 2023, alleging 
that the Berkley Board of Assessors (the “Board”), and Board member Jeanne Russo1 in 
particular, violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The complaint was 
originally filed with the Board on or about March 23, and the Board responded on April 2.2  
The complaint alleges that a quorum of the Board deliberated outside of a posted meeting 
when one Board member met with two members of the public to discuss an upcoming 
election and two other Board members either overheard or were informed of the 
conversation.
3   
 
Following our review, we resolve this complaint by informal action in accordance 
with 940 CMR 29.07(2)(a) and find that the Board did not violate the Open Meeting Law.  In 
reaching a determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Board’s response to the 
complaint, and the complaint filed with our office requesting further review.  We also 
corresponded with the complainant by email to further clarify the nature of the discussions 
that are the subject of the complaint.   
 
 
1 For clarity, we refer to you in the third person. 
2 All dates refer to the year 2023. 
3 The complaint also alleges that Jeanne Russo illegally used town property to meet with members of the public 
discuss an election for which she was on the ballot.  The Division of Open Government’s review concerns 
compliance with the Open Meeting Law, and we do not review whether the meeting in a town office to discuss 
an election could be a violation of some other law, regulation, or town policy outside the scope of our review.   
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
The complainant, who at relevant times was a member of the Board of Selectmen and 
running for re-election to that position, asserts that Board member Jeanne Russo met with two 
private citizens in the Assessor’s office and discussed the need to remove the complainant 
from her position on the Board of Selectmen as well as remove the Council on Aging 
Director.   The Open Meeting Law defines “deliberation,” in part, as “an oral or written 
communication through any medium, including electronic mail, between or among a quorum 
of a public body on any public business within its jurisdiction.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.  
Discussion of political campaigns is not public business within the jurisdiction of the 
Board.  See OML 2014-135; OML 2012-64 (“[s]tatements made by public body members for 
political purposes that do not involve matters presently or likely to come under consideration 
by the public body in the future are not communications on public business within the 
jurisdiction of body, regardless of whether they are made by an individual public body 
member or by the members collectively”).
4  Moreover, the Board of Selectmen and the 
Council on Aging are not matters within the Board’s jurisdiction.  See OML 2022-132 
(explaining that a public body’s discussion of the membership of a different public body was 
not a matter within its jurisdiction where the public body had no authority to determine the 
membership of the other public body).  Therefore, the discussions could not constitute 
deliberation regardless of whether a quorum of the Board heard the discussions, and the Board 
did not violate the Open Meeting Law. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office or 
the Board.  Please feel free to contact our office at (617) 963-2540 if you have any questions 
regarding this letter. 
 
 
Sincerely, 
 
 
Carrie Benedon 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
cc: Wendy Cochrane (via email: ) 
Berkley Town Clerk (via email: townclerk@berkleyma.us) 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final order. 
 
4 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, https://www.mass.gov/the -
open-meeting-law. 
