===PAGE 1===
THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS 
OFFICE OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL 
ONE ASHBURTON PLACE 
BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108 
 (617) 727-2200 
 www.mass.gov/ago 
 
December 15, 2025 
 
       OML 2025 – 207  
 
VIA EMAIL 
 
Christopher H. Heep, Esq. 
Harrington Heep 
40 Grove Street, Suite 190 
Wellesley, MA 02482 
 
cheep@harringtonheep.com 
 
 RE: Open Meeting Law Complaint 
 
Dear Attorney Heep: 
 
This office received a complaint from Barbara McDonald on August 18, 2025, alleging 
that the Needham Select Board violated the Open Meeting Law, G.L. c. 30A, §§ 18-25.  The 
complaint was originally filed with the Select Board on June 16, and you responded on behalf of 
the Select Board by letter dated July 8.
1  In her complaint, Ms. McDonald alleges that Select 
Board Vice Chair Cathy Dowd and Needham Housing Authority Board of Commissioners 
(“Housing Authority Board”) Vice Chair Jim Flanagan violated the Open Meeting Law when 
they conducted interviews outside of a posted meeting to fill a vacancy on the Housing Authority 
Board.2 
 
Following our review, we find that Vice Chair Dowd and Vice Chair Flanagan together 
constituted a public body when they acted as a screening committee and that the public body 
violated the Open Meeting Law by holding meetings without complying with the Law’s 
requirements.  In reaching this determination, we reviewed the original complaint, the Select 
Board’s response to the complaint, and the complainant’s request for further review.  We viewed 
a recording of the meeting of the Housing Authority Board held on May 15.
3  We also reviewed 
minutes of the joint meeting of the Select Board and the Housing Authority Board held on June 
 
1 Unless otherwise specified, all dates refer to 2025. 
2 The cover page of the complaint lists Select Board Chair Heidi Frail and Housing Authority Board Chair Reginald 
Foster as specific individuals who violated the Open Meeting Law.  However, as detailed below, the allegations of 
the complaint center on the candidate screening conducted by Vice Chair Dowd and Vice Chair Flanagan. 
3 We accessed the recording at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y1nko1WgEcI.  
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
10.  Finally, we reviewed an email Town Clerk Louise Miller sent to the Select Board on May 
15. 
 
FACTS 
 
We find the facts as follows.  The Housing Authority Board is a public body comprised 
of five members.  Three members are elected through the normal town electoral process; one is 
appointed by the Governor; and one is appointed by the Select Board.  Penelope Kirk, a member 
of the Housing Authority Board, resigned her elected seat effective May 16.  Pursuant to G.L. c. 
41, § 11, such a vacancy is to be filled by appointment by the Select Board and the Housing 
Authority Board jointly.
4  In other words, the Select Board and the Housing Authority Board 
shared appointment authority to fill the seat being vacated by Penelope Kirk.  At the time of 
Penelope Kirk’s resignation, approximately eleven months of her term remained, as the seat will 
be open at the next election, in April 2026.  Pursuant to written Select Board policy,5 when a 
vacancy requires joint appointment, the Select Board Vice Chair must coordinate with “other 
relevant committee leadership” to “facilitate a process to solicit for, review, and interview 
qualified applicants that is amenable to all bodies. . . .”  “Upon reaching consensus with the other 
committee(s), the [Select Board] Vice Chair shall ensure the full Board is made aware of the 
recommendation no later than seven days prior to the meeting at which the Board is scheduled to 
vote on the appointment.”   
 
Following Penelope Kirk’s resignation, Select Board Vice Chair Dowd assumed the 
responsibility inherent in her position to review applications and coordinate with the leadership 
of the Housing Authority Board.  She did so without any Select Board discussion or vote.  On 
May 15, Town Clerk Louise Miller sent an email to the Select Board, copying Housing 
Authority Board Chair Reginald Foster, explaining that if the Housing Authority Board wished 
to participate in the process of filling the vacancy, the remaining members must provide written 
notice to the Select Board.   
 
At a posted meeting held later that day, the Housing Authority Board discussed the 
vacancy created by Penelope Kirk’s resignation.  Housing Authority Board Chair Foster 
explained to the other members that the process would include reviewing and interviewing 
applicants, and that this effort would be led by Select Board Vice Chair Dowd.  Chair Foster 
further explained that the Select Board requested that the Housing Authority Board designate one 
of its members to assist with the process; once Vice Chair Dowd and a member of the Housing 
Authority Board selected finalists for the position on the Housing Authority Board, the two 
boards would convene a joint public meeting and vote to appoint one of the candidates.  After 
Chair Foster explained this procedure, one of the other members asked if “it’s a screening of the 
interested applicants.”  Chair Foster said that it was.  Following further discussion, Housing 
Authority Board Vice Chair Flanagan agreed to be the Housing Authority Board’s designee and 
to work with Vice Chair Dowd to screen candidates and select finalists.  Thereafter, members of 
 
4 Pursuant to G.L. c. 41, § 11: “If there is a vacancy in a board consisting of two or more members, except a board 
whose members have been elected by proportional representation under chapter fifty-four A, the remaining members 
shall give written notice thereof, within one month of said vacancy, to the selectmen, who, with the remaining 
member or members of such board, shall, after one week's notice, fill such vacancy by roll call vote.”  
5 Select Board Policy no. SB-ADMIN-003, “Protocol for Appointments Made by the Select Board.” 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
the Housing Authority Board signed the notice referenced in Clerk Miller’s earlier email 
informing the Select Board of the Housing Authority Board’s intent to participate in the process 
of filling the vacancy. 
 
Seven people applied for the open position on the Housing Authority Board.  Vice Chair 
Dowd and Vice Chair Flanagan met jointly as a screening committee (the “Screening 
Committee”) to interview all seven candidates and narrowed the pool of candidates to two.  
When reviewing applications, the Screening Committee focused on objective factors, 
specifically, knowledge and professional experience in affordable housing.  The Select Board 
and the Housing Authority Board held a joint meeting on June 10.  At that meeting, the 
Screening Committee recommended the two candidates they had selected to be considered for 
the vacant seat.  The Boards then discussed the strengths of the two candidates and the 
interviews.  Following the discussion, the two Boards voted in favor of appointing Amanda 
Berman to fill the vacancy. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
The Open Meeting Law was enacted “to eliminate much of the secrecy surrounding the 
deliberations and decisions on which public policy is based.”  Ghiglione v. Sch. Comm. of 
Southbridge, 376 Mass. 70, 72 (1978).  The Open Meeting Law applies only to a public body, 
which is defined, in relevant part, as “a multiple member board, commission, committee or 
subcommittee within the executive or legislative branch or within any county, district, city, 
region or town, however created, elected, appointed or otherwise constituted, established to serve 
a public purpose[.]”  G.L. c. 30A, § 18.   
 
For a multiple-member entity to be deemed a public body subject to the Open Meeting 
Law, it must satisfy three factors: 
 
1. The entity must be “within” government and not excluded from the definition of “public 
body”; 
2. The entity must be a “body” empowered to act collectively; and 
3. The entity must serve a “public purpose.” 
 
See OML 2024-118; 2017-120; OML 2010-1.
6  
 
The Screening Committee was created in accordance with Select Board policy no. SB-
ADMIN-003, “Protocol for Appointments Made by the Select Board.”  Vice Chair Dowd 
formally sought a designee from the Housing Authority Board to assist in the screening of 
candidates and selection of finalists, in conformance with Select Board policy, and Vice Chair 
Flanagan agreed to be the Housing Authority Board’s designee.    Pursuant to Select Board 
policy, the two Vice Chairs coordinated to “facilitate a process” to vet qualified applicants and 
“reach[ed] a consensus” to recommend qualified applicants.  In doing so, the pair constituted a 
multi-member group that was within government and empowered to act collectively, thereby 
satisfying the first and second factors.  See OML 2025-205 (finding that committee that was 
 
6 Open Meeting Law determinations may be found at the Attorney General’s website, 
www.mass.gov/ago/openmeeting. 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
formed to review resumes and recommend two or three finalists for position of Fire Chief was a 
public body); OML 2025-80; OML 2024-177 (noting that a screening committee is a public body 
subordinate to the parent body to which it reports).  See also G.L. c. 30A, § 18 (defining 
“preliminary screening” as “the initial stage of screening applicants conducted by a committee or 
subcommittee of a public body. . .”) (emphasis added).  Finally, by vetting candidates to serve on 
the Housing Authority Board, the Screening Committee served a public purpose, in satisfaction 
of the third factor.  For all of these reasons, we find that the Screening Committee was a public 
body. 
 
In its response to the complaint, the Select Board argues that the Screening Committee 
was akin to groups that we found not to be public bodies in prior determinations.  See OML 
2017-111 and OML 2023-98.  Both of those determinations can be distinguished from the matter 
before us, however, because they involved individual members volunteering to take on a project 
on their own initiative.
7  Here, by contrast, members of the Screening Committee did not, on 
their own initiative, volunteer to screen applicants to fill Penelope Kirk’s seat.  Rather, the 
process of vetting applicants was established by state statute and Select Board policy.  State 
statute required that the Select Board and Housing Authority Board share appointment authority.  
G.L. c. 41, § 11.  Select Board policy required that Vice Chair Dowd coordinate with “other 
relevant committee leadership” to “facilitate a process to solicit for, review, and interview 
qualified applicants that is amenable to all bodies. . . .”  When Vice Chair Dowd requested that 
the Housing Authority Board designate a member to assist with the screening process, she did so 
in conformance with established policy, not of her own volition.  Likewise, when Vice Chair 
Flanagan agreed to be the Housing Authority Board’s designee to the Screening Committee, he 
did so in response to a formal request by the Select Board, not as a spontaneous gesture.  
 
The Select Board also points out that even if the pair of Vice Chairs were considered a 
preliminary screening committee subject to the Open Meeting Law, it could have conducted its 
review of candidates (including interviews) in executive session anyway.  It very well may be 
that had the Screening Committee conducted itself as a public body, one or more of its meetings 
could have included an executive session convened under Purpose 8.
8  However, even if the 
Screening Committee could have met in executive session under Purpose 8, it would have been 
required to do so in compliance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law.  Such 
requirements include, but are not limited to, posting notice of meetings and meeting in open 
session to conduct convening procedures prior to entering executive session.  The Screening 
Committee did not satisfy any of these important requirements. 
 
Finally, to the extent that the complainant alleges that the Select Board violated its own 
policies and precedent or those of the Town, we decline to review those allegations.  The 
Division of Open Government’s review concerns compliance with the Open Meeting Law.  We 
 
7 See OML 2023-98 (noting that “[a] gathering of individuals, on their own initiative, does not create a 
subcommittee.”). 
8 Among the ten purposes for executive session is Purpose 8, which allows a public body to enter executive session 
to “consider or interview applicants for employment or appointment by a preliminary screening committee if the 
chair declares that an open meeting will have a detrimental effect in obtaining qualified applicants; provided, 
however, that this clause shall not apply to any meeting, including meetings of a preliminary screening committee, 
to consider and interview applicants who have passed a prior preliminary screening.”  G.L. c. 30A, § 21(a)(8). 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
offer no opinion on whether any action taken by the Select Board could be a violation of any 
other law or policy.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
For the reasons explained above, we find that the Screening Committee constituted a 
public body when it screened candidates applying to fill the seat vacated by Penelope Kirk.  The 
Screening Committee violated the Open Meeting Law when, among other things, it failed to post 
notice of its meetings or convene in open sessions accessible to the public. 
  
We order immediate and future compliance with the Law’s requirements.  We also order 
the Screening Committee within 60 days of the date of this letter, to create minutes of the 
meetings they held in their screening of candidates and to certify to our office that they have 
done so.  The Screening Committee must create the minutes to the best of its ability, through 
whatever means are available, including documents, and the memories and notes of the 
attendees.  See, e.g., OML 2025-27 (ordering Monson American Rescue Plan Act Committee to 
create and approve minutes for meetings held over a period of approximately three years).9   
 
The complainant requests that the Board “[r]edo the process” in accordance with the 
Open Meeting Law.  Although we find that the candidate screening was not performed in 
conformance with the Open Meeting Law, we decline to nullify the Select Board’s appointment.  
Amanda Berman has held the seat vacated by Penelope Kirk for several months.  The seat is 
open for election in April 2026.  The inefficiency of revisiting the appointment only a few 
months prior to the election outweighs any benefit there would be to nullification of the 
appointment.  We note, moreover, that there is no evidence that Ms. Berman had any role in the 
violation of the Open Meeting Law.  Finally, we note that consideration of the two finalists, and 
the selection of Ms. Berman, occurred during a properly posted and accessible meeting of the 
Board. 
 
We now consider the complaint addressed by this determination to be resolved.  This 
determination does not address any other complaints that may be pending with our office, the 
Select Board, the Housing Authority Board of Commissioners, or the Screening Committee.  
Please feel free to contact the Division at (617) 963 - 2540 if you have any questions. 
 
Sincerely, 
 
        
        
 
Matthew Lindberg 
Assistant Attorney General 
Division of Open Government 
 
9 We make no finding and offer no opinion as to whether an exemption to the Public Records Law may allow the 
redaction of the minutes or the withholding of documents used during the meetings.  Questions or concerns 
regarding redactions made pursuant to the Public Records Law should be directed to the Supervisor of Records 
within the Secretary of the Commonwealth's office.  See OML 2024-219. 

===PAGE 6===
6 
 
 
 
cc: Barbara McDonald   
Needham Select Board (via email: selectboard@needhamma.gov)  
Needham Town Clerk (via email: lmiller@needhamma.gov) 
 
 
 
 
This determination was issued pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(c).  A public body or any 
member of a body aggrieved by a final order of the Attorney General may obtain judicial 
review through an action filed in Superior Court pursuant to G.L. c. 30A, § 23(d).  The 
complaint must be filed in Superior Court within twenty-one days of receipt of a final 
order. 
