===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
INITIALS
SPR
and these
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
Lunenburg, Massachusetts
TEMBURG
Marion M. Benson, Chair
Carl Sund, Mbr
Colleen Shapiro, Mbr.
Steve Raboin, Mbr.
Dennis Mannone, Jr., Mbr.
17 Main Street
P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Minutes
January 2, 2013
Meeting Posted: Yes
Place: Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue
Time: 9:00 AM
Present: Chair, Marion M. Benson, Colleen Shapiro, Steve Raboin, Dennis Mannone, Jr.
Absent: Carl (Ernie) Sund, Kerry Speidel
Department of Public Works (DW)- Purpose of meeting was for general introduction of DPW Form B requests concerning all
buildings under the jurisdiction of Director John Rodriquenz. Mr. Rodriquenz explained the Road Rehabilitation Plan. This Plan
is the guideline for all road repairs and/or reconstruction cost at $800,000.00/year. This amount will not be in the FY Plan, but
the need is noted as a capital expenditure that is necessary to the general maintenance of the Town.
He explained that his responsibility also includes maintenance of the DPW Garage (newly constructed), Park, Cemetery, Ritter,
Primary Annex, Public Safety, Town Hall, Eagle House, and Teen Center buildings. DPW is also responsible for maintenance of
all athletic fields and playground, Town Common and Town Beach. DPW is not responsible for school properties.
He addressed the requests under the process for the Form B. The Street Sweeper is requested for FY14 at $180,000.00.
Discussion ensued concerning need. Concern is that the sand affects both the environment and drainage structures. It is a
major task. Outsourcing has been investigated and it is found that outsourcing is very expensive. Regional ownership was
discussed, but the time element for use is the same for surrounding communities. Leasing was also discussed and the Director
will look into the pros and cons. The present sweeper would be used as a trade-in although the potential for a sizable amount is
very little due to age.
Mr. Rodriquenz explained the two intersections that need reconfiguration are Townsend Harbor/Mulpus Road and
Lancaster/Goodrich Street. An engineering study was done at Townsend Harbor/Mulpus Road (cost is $30,000.00). The
request is due to safety; present configuration has caused many accidents. The request for Lancaster/Goodrich Street is for
purchase of a four-way flasher. This methodology would present a visual notice of the danger of cross traffic at that location.
Part of the problem is the landscaping on private property. The owner does not want any removal/trimming of landscaping done
on the property (cost is $35,000.00).
He explained the purpose of the addition of an ADA (American Disabilities Act) compliant ramp/walkway installation to connect
upper/lower level parking from the Teen Center to the Eagle House. Concern is senior parking especially along the street area.
This project has been studied for several years. History shows that an engineered plan was devised for parking in the rear of the
Eagle House. In addition to high cost, there were many physical problems related to the other plans (cost $15,000.00).
===PAGE 2===
Capital Planning Committee
Minutes 01.02.13
Page 2
Additional requests explained by Mr. Rodriquenz are 1-Ton pick-up with plow (cost $42,000.00), which is part of a vehicle
rotation plan that would project fewer repairs and increase reliability. This vehicle would replace a 1994 truck. It would not
increase the DPW fleet. Also explained was the request for the demolition of the existing cemetery building on Holman Street
and the park building on West Street. These structures are no longer needed due to the inclusion of these departments in the
new DPW Building (cost $34,000.00). Discussion was held on further use of the sites.
This informational meeting was noted as helpful for new CPC members. The Committee noted that Mr. Rodriquenz may need to
come in before the Committee again. It was also noted that he would be invited to other meetings with Department Heads when
a request is presented that involves building/maintenance.
Fire Department- Tabled until meeting of January 9. 2013. This will be the second meeting regarding a support and inspection
vehicle.
The Technology Department will be placed on the January 9t meeting agenda for 9"00 AM, at the Ritter.
Adjournment- 10:41 AM
Capplan/minutes/2013/01.02.13
