===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Capital Planning Committee:
Jamie Toale, Chairman
Dennis Mannone, Jr., Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Clerk
Joanna Bilotta-Simeone, Member
Heather Sroka, Member
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Minutes December 16, 2014
Meeting Posted:
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Absent:
Yes
Turkey Hill Middle School Library
Dennis Mannone, Jr., Joanna Bilotta-Simeone, Heather Sroka, Jamie Toale, John Henshaw.
Loxi Calmes and John Londa
Kerry Speidel
1. Meeting called to order by Jamie Toale at 4:31 pm.
2. No public comment.
3. Tour of TH Middle School to better understand the asbestos abatement situation there.
a. John Londa and Loxi Calmes showed the CPC the asbestos situation at THMS. Specifics include:
• Areas where ceiling tiles had become dislodged causing gaps between the tiles and presenting a
path for asbestos particulate to potentially drop down into hallways and/or classroom spaces.
• The asbestos over the ceilings is the coating of the steel beams supporting the roof.
• A few worn floor tiles in high traffic areas (for instance in corners where two hallways meet)
which exposed a layer of asbestos under the tiles' surface.
• Runs of some cable for communication that were to have been over the ceiling, but are now
running along the corner formed by the intersection of the ceiling and the hallway wall. The
cable runs could not be hidden over the ceiling tiles because of the presence of asbestos.
b. Loxi showed us the area where her office is proposed to be at THMS and John and Loxi showed us
the paging system they propose replacing as well as the area next to the computer lab they
propose making into a garage for vehicle maintenance.
c. Loxi also explained that as part of the renovation of THMS to become an upper-elementary school
the windows will have to be replaced. In response to a question Dennis asked about whether the
caulk around the windows contained asbestos, it turned out that the caulk does and that during the
renovation phase there would have to be another round of asbestos abatement to deal with that
issue.
4. The Capital Improvement Project Priorities did not change after Committee's tour of THMS and the asbestos
abatement issue. To recap:
Priority
One
Two
There
Total:
#
6
10
9
25
Total Cost
$1,095,928
$426,550
$242,132
$1,764,610
5. The committee approved the minutes of the Tuesday, December 9 CPC meeting as submitted, 5-0.
.....
....
...
===PAGE 2===
6. CPC Discussion and Action items:
a. Jamie confirmed that the Pavement Management Plan was being taken out of the Capital Planning
process and that the PMP would be funded from the operating budget and Chapter 90.
b. A question regarding what the school would do with the funds voted on for the schools to do the
asbestos abatement turned into a question regarding how to handle instances like this where the
funds approved for capital projects had not been spent.
• Action: The CPC will discuss at the next meeting.
c. After discussing the priorities for funding capital projects, the CPC decided that each member
should come to the next meeting with a priority list prepared to discuss and arrive at a committee
wide priority list.
d. John circulated a format of a schedule of projected available regular borrowing funds for financing
purchases of capital equipment costing $100,000 or more. The general sense of the CPC was that
we would not borrow for any capital purchases as of now.
7. The next meeting is slated to be Tuesday, December 23 at 4:30 in the Bilotta Meeting Room at Town Hall,
subject to Jamie speaking with Kerry on whether we have additional time to complete the priority list of
projects to fund.
8. Adjournment: Joanna moved to adjourn the meeting; Heather seconded the motion, and the committee
voted 5-0 to adjourn at 5:52 pm.
Minutes Respectfully Submitted on January 6, 2015 by John Henshaw
c. Marjorie Boggio
......
