===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MAt
Town of Lunenburg
Capital Planning Committee:
Jamie Toale, Chairman
Dennis Mannone, Jr., Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Clerk
Matthew Allison, Member
Heather Sroka, Member
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Minutes 9/08/15 Meeting
Meeting Posted:
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Absent:
Yes
Bilotta Meeting Room, 2nd Floor, Town Hall
Kerry Speidel, Dennis Mannone, Jr., Heather Sroka, Jamie Toale, Matthew
Allison, John Henshaw
Jay Simeone. Jay is a citizen in Town and is also a member of the Finance
Committee.
All Members Present
1. Meeting called to order by Jamie Toale at 4:32 pm.
2. Capital Planning Committee [CPC]-Election of Officers:
a. CPC Chairman FY 2016
• Heather nominated Jamie; John seconded the nomination.
• The CPC voted unanimously for Jamie as Chairman.
b. CPC Vice-chairman for FY 2016
• Heather nominated Dennis; John seconded the nomination.
• The CPC voted unanimously for Dennis as Vice-Chairman.
с. CPC Clerk for FY 2016
• Heather nominated Dennis; Matthew seconded the nomination.
• The CPC voted unanimously for John as Clerk.
Note that all three nominations were unopposed.
3. Committee Discussion:
a. Jamie explained that the CPC had begun to meet earlier than in the past to take up
issues that had arisen in the past:
• Multi-year capital requests (e.g. the Turkey Hill Middle School [THMS]
asbestos abatement project) that had be considered annually in isolation
rather than in total.
• A general concern was that requests like the THMS abatement project
may be out of the scope of the CPC:
a. Approval would commit the Town to a large part of the capital
budget over several years.
b. The THMS project request in particular involves the issue of
repurposing the building and how to do go about it.
Note: Jamie suggested that the CPC role may be to help frame
the discussion.
• Extending the number of years that the capital plan covers from five to ten
or even 15 or 20 years would aid the capital planning process.
• Jamie raised the opportunity of framing priorities in light of continued
funding of the Pavement Management Program [PMP], existing
===PAGE 2===
requests for capital projects, and prospective capital expenditures,
like the stormwater system upgrade given resource constraints.
A related issue was whether to finance high cost capital projects
(Town policy is projects over $100,000but in practice usually well
over $100,000). When the Town finances these purchases over
years a result is to reduce the capital budget by the cost of the
financing during the period of the financing. That is a further
constraint on the Town's ability to fund future capital requests.
a. Dennis stated that a longer capital planning horizon would let
the CPC take into account when financing for prior projects
ends and time borrowing for current projects accordingly.
b. The Capital Budget Process: Open discussions on their general thoughts with the
departments.
• Notes:
• Each department would broadly determine which topics to cover.
•
As departments all have at least ten year plans, there should be no
problems with any department laying out their capital needs over the
longer term.
• The goal is to get a rough idea of capital needs over the longer horizon,
realizing that projected costs of items to be purchased in future years will be
rough estimates.
• The issues the CPC is especially interested in exploring include where
applicable:
a. Capital needs over a 15-20 year period,
b. The general and preventative maintenance plan (e.g. boilers,
HVAC.)
c. Prospective capital needs (e.g. upgrading the stormwater
system.)
Note: Adam Birney is attending a discussion in the near
future regarding any assistance available for renovation and/or
reconstruction of stormwater systems.
• The proposed schedule is at 4:30 pm-9/29th, 10/13, 10/27.
4. Financing
a. John will circulate his spreadsheet model on financing to all.
• Members can explore scenarios and at a future meeting the CPC can take the
model up.
5. The Radar Trailer that the Town Meeting approved the Police Dept. buy for $12,000 actually
cost $12,44/.
a. John made a motion that the Capital Planning Committee approve that the Town
spend an additional $447 to make up the difference for the purchase of the radar
trailer; Heather seconded the motion and the CPC approved the motion 5-0.
6. Minutes: Heather made a motion to approve the minutes of the May 5 meeting;
Dennis seconded the motion. The committee approved the motion 4-0. Matthew
abstained as he was not at the May 5 meeting
7. Public Comment-Matthew stated the 300th anniversaries of the settling of Lunenburg in
1718 and our Town's incorporation in 1728.
===PAGE 3===
8. Adjournment: Heather made a motion to adjourn; John seconded the motion. The CPC
approved the motion 5-0 and the meeting adjourned at 5:28.
Minutes respectfully submitted September 14, 2015 by John Henshaw
Copy Marjorie Boggio
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 0 1 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
