===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
UPLE
lown of Lunenburg
Capital Planning Committee:
Jamie Toale, Chairman
Dennis Mannone, Jr., Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Clerk
Matthew Allison, Member
Heather Sroka, Member
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Minutes 10/27/15 Meeting
Meeting Posted:
Location:
Present:
Also Present:
Absent:
Yes
Bilotta Meeting Room, 2id Floor, Town Hall
Dennis Mannone, Jr., Jamie Toale, John Henshaw
Jay Simeone--citizen and is also a member of the Finance Committee.
Matthew Allison, Heather Sroka
1. Meeting called to order by Jamie Toale at 4:34 pm.
2. DPW Capital Requests, initial cut by Jack Rodriquenz
• Note: This overview of DPW requests focuses on FY17 and FY18. See the DPW plan for
details.
Facilities
Project:
Public Safety Building HVAC
Automation System
FY2017
Police Records Room
FY2017
DPW Roof Repair-FY2018
DPW Fuel Tank
Replacement-FY2018.
Beach House Wall
Teen Center
Eagle House
Library
Background:
Upgrade functionality of HVAC system. Whether this
will improve the energy efficiency is an open
question.
Note that the plan is to upgrade this system every
ten years or so.
The Police Department needs the additional space for
keeping records. There is a legal component of this.
The roof is an old tar and bailast roof built in 1977.
It has a couple of leaks residual to an HVAC
installation.
Replace 30-year old double walled underground tanks
with above ground tanks. There is a small amount of
leakage between the two walls. There is a real risk
of catastrophic failure. It is a move to address that
risk in two years. The estimated cost would cover
taking care of the old tanks and installing the new
tanks.
A wall is bowing out, which needs to be pulled in by
adjusting the framing.
The building needs to be painted. Jack is looking for
low cost alternatives. Will need to be painted again
in ten years
General exterior maintenance and reconfiguration of
the laundry.
Re-design and construction of the entrance.
Exterior painting along the rooftop.
===PAGE 2===
Vehicles
Vehicle prices are estimated to increase at a compounded rate of 2.5% per year.
• Jack has provided a matrix of DPW vehicle requests that can serve as a template
•
This matrix, when completed may provide a framework for coordinating the
projected annual vehicle replacement schedules of the three departments.
Projects
Turf Field: $800,000.
Five Intersections
Townsend Harbor Bridge
Stormwater Update
Pavement Management Plan
Background:
Every dozen or so years Turf Fields and Tracks need
major re-constructive maintenance. The Town's
facility is showing signs that it is near that phase.
However, the Town has not accrued funds to pay for
this. If enough time goes by, requisite maintenance
will involve reconstruction of the foundation as well
as the surface of the field and track. This would raise
the cost of re-construction.
The Town has the money to study and do the
concept work but estimating costs of the actual work
is premature. So this is an FY18 project at the
earliest.
There are some cracks but nothing structural. So this
would be preventive maintenance work to prevent
further degradation.
The Town does not know how much upgrading the
stormwater management system or when this will
have to be done.
Jamie said that when the stormwater project would
be outside the capital planning process.
Jack directed attention to the chart on the investment
required over a fifteen-year period to end up with a
specific pavement condition index.
3. Minutes: The minutes of the October 13 meeting were not ready for review.
4. Committee Discussion:
a. Concerns and questions centered on the gas tank maintenance: Are there other
solutions to make sure the DPW has fuel that do not involve infrastructure.
b. Dennis said we can focus on FY2017 but should look out several years for planning
purposes.
We decided to postpone scheduling the next meeting until we have more
information on the FY17 budget process.
d. Action: John will work on a draft of the vehicle matrix (see the Vehicle section in
the table above) and will bring it to the next meeting for discussion and review.
5. Public Comment: Jay suggested that we explore options to lower maintenance costs of
the Town's Buildings.
6. Adjournment: Dennis made a motion to adjourn; John seconded the motion. The CPC
approved the motion 3-0 and the meeting adjourned at 5:55.
Minutes respectfully submitted December 28, 2015 by John Henshaw
