===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Capital Planning Committee:
Jamie Toale, Chairman
Dennis Mannone, Jr., Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Clerk
Joanna Bilotta-Simeone, Member
Heather Sroka, Member
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
FAX 978.582.4148
Minutes March 31, 2015 Meeting
Meeting Posted:
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Bilotta Meeting Room, 2nd Floor, Town Hall
Kerry Speidel, Dennis Mannone, Jr., Heather Sroka, Jamie Toale, John Henshaw
Joanna Bilotta-Simeone
1. Meeting called to order by Jamie Toale at 4:03 pm.
2. No public comment.
3. The Committee considered freeing up funds in two areas of the FY16 capital pian: Painting Town Hall and
replacing the carpet in the library.
Town Hall Painting:
• This was an old bid-actual costs would be higher than the $40,000 requested.
• The scope and specific requirements of the Town Hall renovation were not yet settled.
• John moved to take funding for painting the Town Hall out of the recommended FY16
Capital Plan. Heather seconded the motion. The CPC voted 4-0 to approve this motion.
b. Library Carpet:
• The carpet does not need to be replaced yet as it is still in good shape. Further the
$36,500 allocated in FY15 did not include the cost of moving the books so it could not be
done without additional funding.
• Because the Town Meeting voted to allocate $36,500 to the library to replace the carpet,
the funds are in their control and this committee would have to request that the Board of
Trustees the Library concur to use these funds to replace the boiler and the controller.
4. Re-allocating these funds:
a. The library:
• The boiler and energy management controller both needs to be replaced-as they
contributed to the burst pipes in the library and also to boiler is inefficient.
• The boiler would cost $15,000 and the controller would cost $12,000.
b. The school department:
• Funding $30,000 to upgrade network technology for the schools is necessary to keep pace
with the way the network is used.
• This upgrade would support the new Junior-Senior High School now under construction.
c. The Police Department: The funds left over would allow funding of the next highest priority item,
the speed monitoring and recording sign which costs $12,000.
5. Heather made a motion to reallocate the $40,000 that had been allocated to paint the Town Hail to fund
upgrading the network for the schools and the speed sign for the police department. John seconded the
motion and the committee approved the motion 4-0.
6. Jamie will advise the Library Board of Trustees of the CPC recommendation to apply the funds that were
voted on at Town Meeting to purchase a new boiler and energy controller instead of replacing the carpet
and request their concurrence.
7. Because the combined costs of the network upgrade and the speed sign will be lower than the $40,000 that
was available, Heather made a motion to apply any unspent monies to the street sweeper and/or dump
truck to reduce debt service costs. Dennis seconded the motion and the committee voted 4-0 to approve
the motion.
===PAGE 2===
8. Other items:
a. Financing large capital items:
• John briefly described an excel spreadsheet that would let the committee model financing
at various terms-timing of the purchase, interest rate, down payment, length of borrowing
and look at the effects the prospective borrowing would have on future capital budgets.
• This would inform decisions about future borrowing and let department heads know when
the Town can likely afford large capital expenditures.
b. Very large, multi-year projects-e.g. THMS asbestos removal:
• Projects like these have the potential to displace other capital requests over time.
• One risk is that once the initial phase is approved it commits the Town to the successive
9. Minutes: Dennis made a motion to approve the minutes of the January 13 meeting. Heather seconded his
motion and the committee approved the motion 4-0.
10. Next Meeting: The CPC agreed to meet on May 5 at 4:00 in the Bilotta Meeting Room at Town Hall.
11. Adjournment: John made a motion to adjourn the meeting; Heather seconded the motion and the
committee approved the motion 4-0. The meeting adjourned at 5:25.
Minutes respectfully submitted May 5, 2015 by John Henshaw
Copy Marjorie Boggio
