===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
IM
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
Lunenburg, Massachusetts
Jamie Toale, Chair
Heather Sroka, Vice Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
John Henshaw, Mbr.
Damon McQuaid, Mbr.
Town Hall
17 Main Street
P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462
INCORPORAT
MEETING MINUTES
Tuesday, December 13, 2016, 5:00 PM
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
Lunenburg, MA
Meeting Posted:
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Also Present:
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
Jamie Toale, Damon McQuaid, Heather Sroka, Karin Menard, John Henshaw
None
Lunenburg Public Schools Superintendent Loxi Calmes and Director of Facilities John Londa
1. Call to Order: Jamie Toale called the meeting to order at 5:00pm.
2. Public Comment: none
3. Superintendent Loxi Calmes and Director of Facilities John Londa presented the Lunenburg Public
Schools FY2018 Capital Planning Requests.
A. Turkey Hill Elementary School Asbestos Abatement- Superintendent Calmes said the plan
would be for this project to be done in three phases - FY18 ($145,000), FY19($127,000)
and FY20 ($162,000). John Londa explained that the asbestos is mainly above the ceiling
tiles. Jamie Toale asked if the work was being done in multiple phases to spread out the
cost or because of time constraints. John Londa said that it was a bit of both but mainly
because of time constraints. Work needs to be done over the summer when school is not
in session and it would be a challenge to complete all the work in one summer. John Hen-
shaw asked if it could be split up further. John Londa explained that it could not as once
one area was started it needed to be completed as there was no way to stop mid way.
John Henshaw also asked about the urgency of completing it. John Londa responded that
it was tested 10 years ago and that the ceiling tiles installed around 1969 are very brittle.
Failure of the tiles would could cause asbestos exposure. The request for FY18 and FY19
would take care of the first floor and FY20 would take care of the second floor.
B. FY18 Technology requests - Replace teachers laptops $18,000 - 4 years old and out of
warranty. Replacement of server $6,000 - server is currently 5 years old and is being
dwarfed by their requirements. 30 replacement iPads $12,000 - current ones are 5 years
old and new operating systems won't install due to outdated equipment which is limiting
applications. Steve Maladrinos will provide further information when he presents his re-
quests.
C. Air Cooling System at Primary School - FY20 ($10,000) and FY21 ($300,000). Two large
air handlers with cooling coils are already on the roof. These two requests would be run-
===PAGE 2===
ning piping and installation of compressors. Jamie asked if this would be similar to the sys-
tem at the high school John Londa said they would be similar. John Henshaw asked if the
300k is something that could be spread over a number of years. John Londa explained that
he didn't think it could and that the biggest costs will be the condenser that is installed with
a crane that needs to be done in one shot.
D. Video Surveillance at Primary School ($52,370) and Turkey Hill Elementary School FY21
($53,000)- John Londa said one contractor to do both installations and would be cost ben-
eficial to have them down at the same time.
E. Roof replacement FY24 - John Londa explained that in the agreement with Nexamp, they
will remove the panels one time at no cost for roof maintenance. The roof replacement
would be done just before that agreement expires and the school district takes over own-
ership of the panels. John Londa said they would like to see the panels operate for at least
ten years after they take ownership so it would make sense to do the roof while Nexamp is
required to absorb the cost of removing and the reinstalling the panels. This would be a
project that may be eligible for MSBA assistance and the monetary projection is a worst
case scenario. He also said there may be other options other than complete roof replace-
ment and they will be investigate closer to FY24. John further explained that this would
need to fit into the long term plans for the building so things are fluid. In FY19 THES will be
50 years old and starting to push the envelope of typical systems.
F. Other - John Londa mentioned that he is also managing the TCP building and that there is
a portable classroom that is no longer needed but didn't sell when it was deemed surplus.
The cost to remove the classroom will be about $25,000. Jamie asked if there was any-
thing else on the TCP building. John Londa said items identified in the 2007 master plan
are still the main issues and that a lot of work would be needed if town hall offices were
moved into it.
4. Technology - Steve Maladrinos was unable to attend tonights meeting and will present his re-
quests at our next meeting in January.
5. Committee Discussion -
A. Re-vote on reorganizing of committee due to Karin not being sworn in prior to last vote.
i. Vice Chair Heather Sroka - John Henshaw nominated /
Damon McQuaid seconded - approved 5-0
ii. Clerk Karin Menard - John Henshaw nominated /
Damon McQuaid seconded - approved 5-0
B. John updated that he continues to work on a spread sheet that will help to consolidate the
request process. The DPW has started in putting data and he will check to see if there
were any problems before circulating to the other departments.
6. Review / Approve of December 6, 2016 - Minutes approved 5-0
7. Committee Comment - none
8. Adjournment - John Henshaw made a motion to adjourn and Heather Sroka seconded. Approved
5-0 to adjourn at 5:50pm.
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 1 7 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
