===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Page 1 of 2 December 6, 2016 Capital Planning Minutes
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
Lunenburg, Massachusetts
Jamie Toale, Chair
Heather Sroka, Vice Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
John Henshaw, Mbr.
Damon McQuaid, Mbr.
Meeting Posted:
Location:
Present:
Absent:
Also Present:
Town Hall
17 Main Street
P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462
INCORPOR
RECEIVED & FILED
Meeting Minutes of Dec. 6, 2016
DEC 1 4 2016
Yes
LUNENBURG TOWN:
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
amie loale
3, Damon MCQuaid, Heather Sroka, Karin Chard, I On Henshaw
None
Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director
1. Call to Order: Jamie Toale called the meeting to order at 5:00pm.
2. Public Comment: None
3. Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director, presented his Capital Requests for FY2018 and provided
information about potential future requests.
A. Facilities and Projects
i. Senior Center - Exterior painting - $18,300 (prepare existing exterior and paint). John
Henshaw inquired about the potential for lead paint requiring additional work. Jack
responded that it had been inspected and there was no lead paint.
il.
Teen Center - Exterior Painting - $16,750 (prepare existing exterior and paint)
ill. Fuel Tank Farm - $110,000 - This would cover pumping, removing and disposing of
current tanks and replacing with 2 slightly smaller above ground tanks. Jack
explained that that one we have now is at least 30 years old and long past its
warranty. When removing the existing tank the soil will need to be tested in case
there is permeation of hazardous material into the soil. If there has been permeation,
remediation would need to happen. Jamie expressed concern about start the
removal and finding issues with permeation of hazardous material from the tank and
asked if there was a way to mitigate the potential expense if it has or if insurance
would cover it. Jack said he would look into whether or not insurance would cover
any of this expense if it has started to leak. He also mentioned there is a state grant
that is currently unfunded on the state level that he will apply for in case money ever
becomes available.
iv. Playground Structure - $12,000 - Due to antiquated and equipment that no longer
meets satety requirements, playgrounds at Town Beach, Fitzgerald Field (Reservoir
Rd.), Marshall Park (Massachusetts Ave), Wallis Park (corner of Whalom Rd. and
Wallis Park Rd.) and McNally Park (corner of Whalom Rd. and Lesure Ave) will have
equipment removed as soon as possible. The $12,000 would cover installing a new
===PAGE 2===
Page 2 of 2 December 6, 2016 Capital Planning Minutes
piece of equipment and ground cover that meets current safety requirements at one
of the parks but most likely Wallis.
v. Public Safety - Building Automation - $15,250 - Current system needs to be
upgraded to a computerized system that would allow for HVAC control similar to that
of the Library and other monitored buildings we have in town.
B. Vehicles - There are 2 vehicles being requested for replacement in FY2018.
i. 2005 Ford Pickup to be replaced with a Utility Body Truck for $43,124
ii. 1994 GMC Dump truck 350 to be replaced with a Ford Dump truck for $53,767
C. Other Discussion
i. Town Hall Painting - Jack has received calls from members of the community
regarding painting of the Town Hall and wanted to do his due diligence in making
sure that an accurate estimate was available (see attached). This estimate is the
minimum that would need to be done to hold things together. Jamie said he would
like to see this and similar items on the Capital Plan, even if years out even if the
building reuse committee has not made final recommendations, as these buildings
still belong to the town and they are our responsibility.
ii. Police records room and carport reconfiguration at Public Safety Building - Per Jack,
the only way to get an accurate estimate on what would be needed for either of these
projects is an engineering plan which is not a cost they are in a position to cover so
he will work on it for next year.
ili. Library - Jamie noted that the library facility doesn't have anything requested until
2021. Jack assured the committee that he has spoken to the Library Director and
there was nothing at this time that she felt needed to be requested. Previously a
request for new carpeting was approved but the cost of moving the books was never
figured into the request so the project was not started and there was no request to
add it back in.
iv. Pavement Management - Jamie said one of the things he would like to make part of
the planning process is review of the pavement management plan for the long term
so we will know what the future peaks and valleys are and where we would put some
of the higher ticket items. He also said that ultimately after a 4 year debt exclusion it
will all end up back in one pile and if we do a good job we won't need to do another
debt exclusion. John agreed saying we don't want to mortgage our future.
4. Committee Discussion - Overall committee thought the DPW Director's presentation was
well thought out. Jamie would like to continue to push for pavement management updates
and numbers although it is not critical for this year. John is continuing work on a spread
sheet of sorts that would consolidate the process. He has communicated with the DPW in
helping to get the format down and make sure its workable. He will bring it back to the
committee for feedback and then will move on to the rest. John is also looking at how we
could handle an 850k ladder truck.
5. Committee Comment - none
6. Adjournment - Damon made a motion to adjourn and Heather Sroka seconded. Approved
5-0 to adjourn at 6:22pm.
RECEIVED & FILED
DEC 1 4 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
