===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Capital Planning Committee:
Jamie Toale, Chairman
Dennis Mannone, Jr., Vice-Chairman
John Henshaw, Clerk
Matthew Allison, Member
Heather Sroka, Member
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
978.582.4139
RECE 978582142ED
JAN 2 6 2016
Meeting Posted:
Yes
Capital Planning Meeting 01/12/16
LUNENBURG TOWN
Location:
Bilotta Meeting Room, Town Hall
CLERK OFFICE
Present:
Jamie Toale, Dennis Mannone, Heather Sroka, Matt Allison, John Henshaw
Absent:
None
Also Present:
Kerry Speidel, Town Manager; Jack Rodriquenz, Director, DPW from 4:30 - 5:30
1. Meeting called to order by Jamie Toale at 4:30 pm.
2. Public Comment: None
3. This is an overview of the requests. For details on specific requests, please refer to the Town Manager's
summary dated December 17, 2015 in the Capital Planning Committee All Requests binder and the hand-outs
from the Department of Public Works.
4. Department of Public Works Requests presented by Jack Rodriquenz.
Department of Public Works FY2017
•
Department of Public Works requests are in three groupings: Facilities, Projects, and Vehicles.
FACILITIES
Request
Records Room at Public Safety
Building
$25,000
Priority #1 of 4
Exterior Painting of the Teen
Center
$12,000
#2 of 4
Exterior painting of the Eagle
House $15,000. #3 of 4.
Building Automation System
Public Safety Building
$12,000.
Priority: #4 of 4 requests.
Explanation:
There are no quotes: The $25,000 is an estimate based the size in
square feet of a room that may become the records room.
However, the square feet of the spaces the Police Department is
considering of using as a records room is not settled.
This paint job is important maintenance of the Teen Center building
and has as well an aesthetic component. The quote includes using
exterior grade paint (not Benjamin Moore Rhino paint).
Kip Wilson said that standard procedure was to re-paint these
buildings every ten years.
There is no documentation on the scope of work for the exterior
painting job of the Teen Center.
In places the exterior wood of the Eagle House has begun to
deteriorate. This project is more urgent: If these places are not
repaired soon enough the maintenance will be more expensive.
• Dennis requested a firm quote describing the scope of work of
this project.
This is a technology driven replacement of the front end controller.
The old system is not supported any longer. Additional functionality
of the replacement system:
• New system nas energy management capability
• Remote access via VPN if needed
Suggested replacement is every ten years.
The Town's IP department has been involved with the process of
choosing a system.
===PAGE 2===
PROJECTS
Request
Townsend Harbor Bridge
FY2017
$15,000
Explanation
The abutments are cracking because the underneath of the bridge
has been scoured with branches. The project would include
bringing the guardrails up to code and repairing the concrete with a
high pressure concrete application.
Estimates of the re-
configuration of four
intersections to make them
safer.
This has no priority. But will
be coming up in FY18 and
beyond.
DPW to needs to have the engineer's reconfiguration of each
intersection and what construction is required prior to estimating
what it will cost to re-configure these intersections.
• At the earliest the reconfiguration of these intersections would
not be until FY2018 with one intersection reconfigured in a
year-mainly because of the constraints of funds.
• Federal funding is an option but Jack said that was a long
process and the Town may not want to wait that long as the
purpose is to make each intersection safer.
Vehicles
• Jack's Catch Basin Cleaner proposal involves re-working and re-purposing a b-wheel truck and
replacing it with a snow plow in FY2018.
Catch Basin Cleaner
The Town needs new equipment needed to clean the catch basins.
Attachment--- $87,125.
The current equipment is old and has so many welds that it is
Priority #1.
structurally weak. Jack's estimate is that it would last perhaps
another year, but it is at risk for failure. He requested a bid to
Re-work the Intl 6-wheel
Dump.
outsource the service, but has not heard back.
His proposal is to re-work the body to re-configure a 17-year old
truck that has been used for winter plowing and to mount the catch-
basin attachment at $123,000. It would extend the life of the truck
by another 15 years. The truck is nearing the end of its productive
life as a snowplow.
The Town would need to replace the re-worked snow truck in
FY2018. Otherwise the Town would go from seven to six snow
plow/sander trucks which would increase the response time for
sanding/salt application and plowing during snow storms.
Replace the GMC and/or
Chevy Pick Up Trucks.
$53,000 each.
These two pick-ups that can last somewhat longer-may be
candidates for the school to use or the fire department. The fire
department is looking for a truck for plowing. One of the DPW
trucks comes with a plow.
5. Bond counsel advises that the Turf track and field does not qualify for contingency fund expenditures.
• The surface of the track service is deteriorating. The estimate is that the Town has about one year to
repair the track surface at a cost of $150,000. If the repair is not done within the next year, the
deterioration would involve the sub-surface and would cost a multiple of $150,000 to repair.
• The turf field may last another year; Renovation prior to systemic failure would reduce costs significantly,
6. Minutes:
• Minutes of the October 27, 2015 and January 5, 2016 Capital Planning Committee meetings:
• All members signed off on these minutes. But there was no formal motion process on whether to
approve them, so we will table consideration of these two sets of minutes until the CPC meeting
of January 12, 2016.
• The minutes of the October 27, 2015 meeting. Dennis made a motion to approve the minutes as
written and John seconded the motion. The committee approved the motion by a vote of 3-0.
Matthew and Heather abstained as neither was in attendance.
• The minutes of the December 29, 2015 meeting. Dennis made a motion to approve the minutes
as written and Heather seconded the motion. The committee approved the motion by a vote of
4-0.
• The minutes of the January 5, 2016 meeting. John made a motion to approve the minutes as
written and Heather seconded the motion. The committee approved the motion by a vote of 4-0.
Jamie abstained from the vote
===PAGE 3===
7. Committee Discussion:
• John briefed the committee on the email he had received from John Londa further explaining the
determination that the Town needed to abate the asbestos at Turkey Hill Middle School as funds were
available. He sought to enter John Londa's email regarding the asbestos abatement project.
• Dennis made a motion to append John Londa's email to the asbestos abatement request. John seconded
the motion. The committee approved the motion 5-0.
• Kerry sent xIsx files of the projects to use to rank requests for the 1/22 meeting.
• Whether the Capital Planning Process should include large projects (e.g. building re-use projects,
renovation of the turf track and field:
• Kerry said there was an advantage in having all capital projects irrespective of size or funding
mechanism in one functional area.
• But the role of the Capital Planning Committee role could be to provide a central point for all the
prospective capital projects and to help frame the trade-offs of the various requests.
8. Public Comment: None.
9. Adjournment: Heather made a motion to adjourn; Matt seconded the motion. The Committee approved the
motion 4-0 and the meeting adjourned at 6:28.
Minutes respectfully submitted January 17, 2016 by John Henshaw
Attachment (1): Copy of email from John Londa, Director of Facilities, School Department.
Copy: Jack Rodriquenz
John Londa
===PAGE 4===
Attachment (1):
E Mail from John Londa re. Compliance to AHERA: Asbestos hazard Emergency Response Act.
The School Department must comply with federal AHERA regulations (Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response
Act) that became law in 1986. I am the school department Designated Person with respect to compliance. The
State Department of Labor has oversight on our compliance. The School department had to do an initial
AHERA inspection and subsequent re-inspections every three years. The last 3 year inspection was perform by
Cardno ATC, a liscenced asbestos planner in April 2013. We had a DOL compliance inspection in September
2012 that cited 21 items in a Notice of Non Compliance dated November 19, 2012. While most items were
citing failures of the Asbestos Planer (we had been using A-1 Spectrum, Inc since 1997), item 20 required that
we update the management plan with the consultant identify the resources to complete response actions
successfully and carry out re-inspection, operations and maintenance activity. The notice of non-compliance
spurred the change in asbestos planner. The re-inspection by Cardno ATC listed the removal as a high priority
removal of the spray on fireproofing. The Response Action Recommendation was "Remove spray-on fire
proofing as soon as economically feasible".
I have not seen any grant funding or other programs that support removal or remediation of asbestos in
schools in the 18 years I have been the Director of Facilities.
This spring we will have Cardno ATC conduct a re-inspection as required by AHERA and will have them update
projected cost for removal to match the experience we have had over the last two years with bidding this
work.
