===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Capital Planning Committee 
November 21, 2022 
Meeting Minutes 
 
Location: Ritter Building  
 
Present: Chairperson Tom Alonzo, David Passios, George Martin, Matthew Brenner, and Peter Beardmore. 
Guests: Lunenburg Resident Rhonda Lissio 
Call to Order: Chairperson Tom Alonzo called meeting to order at 6:01 p.m., and read a statement regarding 
the Open Meeting Law and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely, and how to attend and 
participate in those meetings. Link to recorded meeting: https://youtu.be/dZtV-sOgDZM  
Public Comment: none 
Discussion of CPC Inventory Responsibility under chapter 12-18 of the Town Bylaws 
Chapter 12-18 states:  
“The Capital Planning Committee shall establish and update a comprehensive capital plan. The 
Committee shall at least annually provide its materials to the Town Manager so that the Town 
Manager will meet the obligations of the office set forth in Section 6-7 of the Lunenburg Town 
Charter. The Capital Planning Committee shall be responsible for providing a complete inventory of 
Town property, real and personal, including school property, in conjunction with the Town 
Manager.” 
 
The committee agreed that establishing the town’s inventory in the summer before the capital 
planning process begins would be most helpful. 
Mr. Brenner added that given the purview of the committee the list should consist of items and bulk 
purchases for $20,000 and over, as well as recently retired items such as vehicles.  
Mr. Beardmore added that knowing the town’s inventory will be helpful to the town as a whole, as 
well as the Capital Planning Committee.  
 
Open Discussion of Capital Planning Requests and Prioritization:  
 
Mr. Beardmore opined that funding sources should be considered when prioritizing the list. Mr. 
Alonzo explained that funding sources are not the purview of the committee. 
 There are 29 capital plan requests totaling $3,140,110 
 
Committee members discussed wanting clarification on the Flat Hill Road drainage construction, the 
additional parking lot for the senior center, the bundled cemetery projects, and the school’s safety 
projects. Committee members also discussed 6 wheel dump trucks, and the new facility for animal 
control.  
 
Unanimously approved by Capital Planning 
Committee at 12/14/2022 meeting. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes Approval: Mr. Brenner motioned to approve the minutes of the October 17, 2022, and the October 
26, 2022 meetings, Mr. Passios seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
Action Items for Next Meeting: More discussion, and prioritization of capital plan items 
Confirm Subsequent CPC Meetings: November 30, December 5, and December 14, 2022. 
Public Comment from the committee: Mr. Passios announced the holiday tree is slated to arrive November 
26, 2022 at the gazebo. Annual tree lighting will take place December 1, 2022 at 6:00 p.m.  
Public Comment from the public: Ms. Lissio commented that she would rather see the school officer 
resource program expanded than see the town spend money on protective film for windows.  
Adjournment: Mr. Brenner motioned to adjourn, Mr. Beardmore seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 