===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Capital Planning Committee 
Meeting Minutes 
October 26, 2022 
 
Location: Ritter Building  
 
Present: Chairperson Tom Alonzo, Dave Passios, George Martin, Peter Beardmore, and Matthew 
Brenner. 
Guests: Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Lunenburg Schools Superintendent Dr. Kate Burnham, School 
Facilities and Grounds Steve Pusatari, School Committee Chairperson Carol Archambault, School 
Resource Officer Brad McNamara, Lunenburg Police Chief Thomas Gammell, Lunenburg Resident 
Rhonda Lissio 
Call to Order: Chairperson Tom Alonzo called meeting to order at 6:01 p.m., and read a statement 
regarding the Open Meeting Law and how all public meetings are legally being held remotely, and how 
to attend and participate in those meetings. 
Public Comment: none 
Presentation of Capital Planning Requests: School Department 
Dr. Burnham explained that last year’s capital request for the air conditioning at the primary 
school is not financially feasible.  
Dr. Burnham presented the schools’ ten-year plan for capital planning projects. Over the next 
ten years, the primary school seeks $618,500 in capital spending. Turkey Hill Elementary School 
will seek $15,056,822, which assumes contributions from the Massachusetts School Building 
Authority (MSBA), and possibly $2,200,000 for the MS/HS to upgrade the turf field, walls, and 
concession stand.  
Over the next ten years district-wide, the schools plan to spend $343,923 on safety film for 
windows, as well as a replacement mower, 2 pickup trucks, plows, and a passenger van.  
For FY24 Dr. Burnham prioritized the school department requests: 
1. Safety Window Film Districtwide $160,000 
2. Exterior Door Replacement at THES $160,000 
3. Access and Security upgrades at the primary school and THES $83,500, $131,000 
4. Upgrade Fire Alarm system at THES $287,000 
5. Athletic Complex feasibility study $50,000 
6. New pickup truck $68,000 
 
Safety and Security requests: 
 Safety Window Film: The school department hopes to prevent, or slow down an 
intruder with the safety film, also the film is tinted, which decreases solar glare 
and decreases cooling costs. 
 
Mr. Brenner asked whether schools are still considered the safest place for 
children to be, and about the cost benefit analysis of the protective film, as well 
Unanimously approved by Capital 
Planning Committee at 11/21/2022 
meeting. 
 
===PAGE 2===
as how well the tinting works as far as cooling is concerned. Mr. Brenner also 
inquired about efficacy studies on the protective film from someone other than 
the manufacturer. Mr. Pusatari suggested searching for 3M safety glass on 
YouTube. 
Mr. Beardmore opined that it’s worth the investment if there’s any chance of 
preventing an attack.  
Chief Gammell added that the protective film is only a part of a comprehensive 
plan, and pointed out that if one aspect can even slightly change the plan of an 
attacker, it gives first responders an opportunity for prevention.   
 
 Exterior Door Replacement: Dr. Burnham explained that THES is the only school 
in the district with just one door to go through in order to enter the building. All 
other schools have a double door with a vestibule area. Dr. Burnham explained 
that the current doors have antiquated locking mechanisms, which cause staff 
members the need to be vigilant and pull on the doors to make sure they are 
latched and locked. 
 
 Access and Security Upgrade THES and Primary School: New vestibule at THES, 
upgraded door access controls and alarm keypad (to match LMHS), change from 
numeric codes to access cards, additional and upgraded security cameras, 
additional motion detectors. Having all the same security system makes 
entering schools easier for faculty, and also first responders.  
 
Mr. Alonzo asked if there is an itemized list to describe the cost of each item 
when it comes to the amount of cameras, card readers, etc. Mr. Pusatari replied 
that a lot of the cost has to do with wiring for the project.  
 
Mr. Pusatari explained that a new system will make things like entering the 
building by first responders, and not needing to know separate codes for 
separate buildings much simpler. 
 
 THES Fire Alarm System upgrade: New, and additional smoke detectors, 
upgrade and add fire alarm pull stations, new fire alarm panel and system with a 
panel interface screen. Upgrading of the system will bring it into compliance 
with current code, and reduce risk of system failure due to age.  
 
Planning Request: 
 MS/HS Athletic Complex feasibility study: current conditions show sunken 
pavers, leaning fencing, leaning walls, and drainage issues on the track and turf 
field. The study will determine whether fixing the drainage issues is even 
possible, as well as adding restroom and storage capacity, and prioritizing what 
site remediation is needed. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Committee members discussed the age of the field and whether building the 
MS/HS could be the cause of the drainage issues. Mr. Beardmore pointed out 
that the development of the field was largely a volunteer effort.  
Mr. Alonzo asked whether the study would involve replacing the track and/or 
turf. Dr. Burnham explained that she doesn’t know what the study could 
uncover with regard to repair and/or replacement. 
Operations Request: 
 Pickup Truck: Purchase of ¾ ton pickup truck with plow and sander to replace an 
11 year-old dump truck. The school department claims to need their own truck 
with plow and sander to lighten the load on DPW, especially when the parking 
lots are icy when events get out after regular business hours, and DPW workers 
have gone home for the day. 
 
Mr. Passios asked if a ¾ ton would be heavy enough to hold a sander and plow. 
Mr. Passios opined that this request is not necessarily a need.  
 
Mr. Beardmore commented that he’s personally experienced glare ice in the 
parking lot after events get out later at night.  
 
Mr. Alonzo pointed out that a ¾ ton pickup wouldn’t need to be full of sand as 
it’s only sanding the schools’ property. Mr. Alonzo added that a maintenance 
plan for school vehicles is needed.  
 
Mr. Brenner asked whether the school department can maintain its own 
vehicles. Dr. Burnham replied that they are working with the DPW on a 
maintenance plan.  
Mr. Beardmore opined that the $15 million for THES is much more needed today than it was a few years 
ago. Dr. Burnham emphasized that by taking MSBA money, an agreement is made to use the building as 
a school for the next ten years. Mr. Beardmore also expressed his concern over the safety of the school 
buildings. Mr. Passios asked whether there is federal money available for some security measures. Dr. 
Burnham claimed the state is releasing $40 million that spans pre-school through higher education, but 
no information is available on how those funds will be distributed. 
Mr. Passios expressed gratitude for the specific list of needs for THMS. 
Next Meeting: November 7 –Facilities presentation 
Action Items: Mr. Beardmore brought up Special Purpose Stabilization and ARPA Funding, and how an 
ambulance is under ARPA requests, as well as capital plan, and that the Special Purpose Stabilization 
fund is for things like ambulances. 
Mr. Alonzo responded that those topics are out of the scope of the Capital Planning Committee, and 
that funding comes from several sources which are under the discretion of the Town Manager. 
Mr. Alonzo suggested adding a minutes portion to the next agenda. 
===PAGE 4===
Public Comment: Ms. Lissio asked how much the 3M film would reduce the cost of cooling when it’s 
only to be installed on the first floor of the buildings. Ms. Lisso said she also noticed price increases of 
two requests since the school committee meeting where the requests were first presented. Mr. 
Beardmore, who is a school committee member, responded that the information that was given at the 
school committee meeting had since been updated with more current quotes. 
Ms. Lissio also expressed her opposition to funding the safety film for school buildings, and thinks it does 
not provide a measurable impact on school safety, as it only delays intrusion, and does not prevent it.  
Ms. Lissio opined she would rather see money spent on the school resource officer program, which, has 
proven successful in one of the buildings, and practically guarantees police response from an intruder. 
Ms. Lissio asked whether the town is looking to expand the school resource officer program, and 
whether there is an officer in training currently. Ms. Lissio opined that she’d like to see more officers in 
the schools before fortifying the buildings.  
Mr. Alonzo responded that the cooling savings is only 5 percent of the reasoning behind the safety film, 
and that the request has much more to do with safety. 
Mr. Alonzo responded that the Capital Planning Committee’s purview is to judge items on the capital 
plan, and that Ms. Lissio should bring her concerns to the school committee to inquire why they aren’t 
requesting more school officers.  
Mr. Alonzo asked if the Town Manager had any comment. She responded that she has broken down the 
capital plan by percentages and that the schools make up 30 percent, DPW makes 20 percent, the Fire 
Department makes 24 percent, and Facilities and Ground makes 20 percent.  
Adjournment: At 8:02 p.m. Mr. Passios motioned to adjourn, Mr. Brenner seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously.  
 
 