===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
October 2 3 , 2024
Main Floor Meeting Room
Ritter Building
960 Massachusetts Ave .
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present Members: Chair Peter Beardmore, Vice Chair Tom Alonzo, Clerk Matt Brenner, 
Member-at-large Rob Bowen, Finance Committee Representative Chris Menard
1. Call to Order
 The meeting opened at 6 :30 PM.
2. Public Comment – committee, public
 There were no comments from the Committee or the public.
3. Chair ’s report
 Peter  Beardmore received an email from Dr. Kate Burnham with the 
revised  edits to their presentation.
Peter  Beardmore  received an email fr om the Administrator  for IT,  K ara 
McCarthy , relating to a deck.  The deck  previous ly received was  not in 
conformance with the principles previously discussed and  hasn ’t been 
updated  in about a year.
Petere Beardmore r equested a date from the IT department for their 
presentation.
4. Review and approve minutes
 There was a motion to approve the minutes from July 10, 2024, July 31, 
2024,  and October 9, 2024,  by M att B renner, seconded by T om Alonzo. All in 
favor. The vote was unanimous .
5. Capital request presentations
 a. Facilities
 The Facilities Director, Chris R uth , provided his presentation.
The facilities department o versees 11 buildings:  Town Hall, Ritter 
Memorial Library, Dept . of Public Wor k s , Public Safety C omple x, Adult 
A ctivity Cente r, L ibrary, B oys and G irls C lub , Brooks House, TC 
Passios building, old primary school .
Additionally, they help  with H ollis R oad C onservation property  and 
the old gas station at 925 M ass A ve.
===PAGE 2===
Facilities also help  with  the Park Department facilities; Marshall 
P ark a n d pond, Memorial Park/Veterans Park, McNally Park, Wallace 
Park, Fitzgerald Field, Town Beac h and beach house .
Currently Chris Ruth has over 100 projects on his l ist .
Chris M enard  inquiries  about the project s  for the Brooks Hous e as 
he was under the impression that no action was going to be taken 
on that property . Chris Ruth states those projects  were carried over 
from the last list. The APDC has an article at the upcoming town 
me eting about selling or leasing that location. Chris Me nard 
suggests removing  any items that aren ’t intended to be done.
Chris R uth does not know what the plans are for the interior  of the 
Ritter Building, Town Hall and  TC Passios. This creates difficulty and 
confusion regarding  planning.
Peter Beardmore s uggests meeting and having a conversation with 
the Superintendent  specifically about the schools.
FY26 C apital Requests
1. Second floor building design for the Public Safety Building.  There are 2
rooms on the second floor above the police department . The rooms are
currently  empty or being used for storage. 
 Peter  Beardmore  suggests  touching base with the Interim Police 
Chief  about the st o rage  and open space available. Additionally, he 
qu estions what the regulatory obligations are for turning the hard 
copies into digital records  to create better archives and more space.
2. Library HVAC update , design, and construction. There has been issued
with the HVAC system in the past few years. Additionally, replacement  
parts no longer exist. The first step is to upgrade  the control and then 
replace the rooftop units.
 Peter  Beardmore  questions why this project requires  engineering  
and design work costing $ 32,000 . Chris R uth  states the  initial 
rooftop design estimate  was $ 13,00 0 which includes structural 
evaluations.   Peter  Beardmore asks  if the building gets too cold or 
too hot. Chris Ruth confirms they haven ’t bee n able to keep a 
consistent temperature in the children ’s  side for the last  year and
a hal f. That unit does have radiant heating in the wintertime .
 In reference to grants Chris Ruth  believes there is 1 more round  of 
up to $ 200 ,000  and then it is capped at $ 100 ,000  a year
===PAGE 3===
3. Parking lot design for the Senior Center. The $32,000 request includes 
a survey, conceptual plans, and everything on the civil  engineering 
side . There has been discussion about potentially shifting K ids 
K ingdom down to gain  additional parking.  Currently, there are 9 parking
spaces between the S enior C enter and Bo ys and G irls C lub .
 Peter  Beardmore questions who control  that piece of l and and if 
there is an issue about where TC Passios land ends.
 Tom Alonzo asks how many parking spots the Council on Aging  is 
looking to have.
4. HVAC replacement at Town H all . Town H all has 4 furnace air handler  
units. The 2 in the basement serve  the first floor  and they  were 
replaced 5 to 6 years ago. The 2 in the attic are at the end of their  life. 
Additionally , there needs to be replacement of the 4 air conditioner 
conde nsers outside. Those are running R22 refrigerant which has been
reclaimed. Chr is R uth  believes there may be some Green Communities
grants available.
5.   Town Hall window replacement . Some of the windows are 8 to 9 feet 
high.  There may be some Green Communities grants available.
 Chris  Menard  questions if the APDC  has any input as they  are 
historically aligned with the windows selection. Chris R uth  doesn ’t 
anticipate any push back,  but he will  contact them .
6. Replace the Boys and Girls Club flooring. The carpet will be replaced 
with vinyl planks on the first and second floor. This is estimated to cost 
$ 25,000 . 
 Matt  Brenner inquires if the vinyl plank s will last. Chris Ruth 
completed  a test run and installed it at the town  beach house and it 
has been holding up.
7. Replace the flooring at the S enior  C enter  on the first floor.
 Peter Beardmore asks if  there is a plan to add an elevator. Chris 
Ruth  is not aware of one, but a chair lift may be a possibility.
8. Mc N ally P ark survey and design . This will be an expansion of the park 
to make the space more accessible and adding bathrooms. There is 
talk of moving  the t- ball field  t o this location. Marshall P ark plan s  to 
remove  the t-ball field completely. There is a question  about why t -ball 
isn ’t played on the little league fields. 
9. Marshall P ond weed treatment . This will start with clearing  out the 
center of the pond to help create waterflow. There will be some limited  
chemical treatment . This is estimated to cost $ 50,000 .
===PAGE 4===
10. Exterior repairs at Ritter Memorial Building . This is a  backlogged 
project . Currently there is no estimate but one is expected to be 
received by mid-November. 
Peter Beardmore suggests prioritizing the projects that have 
already been committed to.
Ongoing capital projects
- DPW garage  floor  and roof.  Bids are currently open, and ARPA 
funds are anticipated to be used.
- The Senior Center roof contract  has been awarded.
- There was a walk through today  of the library  teen room 
expansion and the Town Hall roof.
Peter  Beardmore  suggests  having a  follow-up  meeting to discuss 
specific numbers or create placeholder numbers for the design 
projects.  Chris Ruth will send a spreadsheet with the updated 
numbers .
Peter Beardmore wants to know where the funding gaps are. Chirs 
R uth will put something together.
Chris  Menard discussed t he vacant location that was previously  
Main Street Bank . This property  will soon be up for lease. Chris 
Menard s uggests moving the studio into that location. Chris ruth will
look further into this.
Peter Beardmore briefly discussed the TC Passios building and it 
being  abated. Chris Ruth says there is an esthetics survey available
for TC Passios.
Chris M enard  inquires about the plans for the gas station. Chris 
Ruth is unsure  but confirms t hey were testing and monitoring the 
wells last week.  The town does own the building.  Chris Menard 
questions if the building could be knocked down and if  possible,  put 
the food pantry there and see if there are any grants available. 
Chr is Ruth states the issue is that it ’s  part of the village district . I f i t 
was knocked down and rebuil t it needs to be two stories  and meet 
the space requirements for parking .
6. Discuss draft town fiscal policy manual
 There has been no further discussion  related to the fiscal policy manual.
7. Review schedule, topics for future meetings
 November 4 th  – DPW & Fi re  presentations
 Peter Beardmore states the only presentation that is missing is the IT 
department. All presentations need to take place prior to Christmas.
8. Public Comment – public, committee
 There were no comments from the public or the Committee.
===PAGE 5===
9. Adjourn
 There was a motion to ad journ by Tom Alonzo, seconded by Matt Brenner.
The meeting closed at 8:07 PM. 