===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
CAPITAL PLANNING COMMITTEE
October 21 , 2024
Main Floor Meeting Room
Ritter Building
960 Massachusetts Ave
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present Members : Chair Peter Beardmore , Vice Chair Tom Alonzo, Clerk Matt Brenner, 
Member-at-large Rob Bowen, Finance Committee Representative Chris Menard
1. Call to Order
 The meeting opened at 6:30  PM .
2. Public Comment – committee, public
 There were no comments from the Committee or the public.
3. Chair ’s report
 Peter Beardmore states there haven ’t been any more issues related to IT. A 
shared folder was created that the Committee  can work from. IT has not 
scheduled a date or time for their capital planning presentation.
Peter Beardmore met with the DPR Director, and it was brought to his attention 
that The Massachusetts DOT has a new state rule that some vehicle efficiency 
and electric vehicle requirement for heavy equipment has been accelerated. 
These new laws will be adopted nationally in  January 2027, but Massachusetts  
has accelerated the adoption to 2025. This will create a hardship to obtain heavy 
equipment vehicles because they are already unavailable and when available 
they are much more expensive than today ’s  equivalent. This notice was passed 
to Representative Ku shmerek  an d was informed last week that this h as  been 
postponed by 1 year and will go into effect January 2026. 
4. Review and approve minutes
 The previously submitted minutes were circulated to the Committee,  and they are
anticipated to be approved at the next meeting.
5. Capital request presentations
a. Schools
Superintendent Dr. Kate Burnham provided the presentation. 
 The below projects are listed in priority order and voted on by the School 
Committee at  their meeting on September 4 th .
 FY26 Capital R equest s
1. A f easibility  study for the entry and driveway expansion at the P rimary 
S chool . This is estimated to cost $30,000. This will include  a designer 
to complete a feasibility study of the M ass A ve . entry  and a review of 
===PAGE 2===
any environmental limitations due to wetlands. An assessment will be 
completed of  the current  parking capacity ex pansion fo r the driveway, 
driveway  parking to the school facility, evaluation of emergency access
of P olice, F ire, EMT  vehicles .
2. D esigner services for playground equipment. This is estimated to cost  
$ 30,000. The funds  would allow a contract for a playground  designer  
along with stakeholders to develop a new age appropriate  inclusive 
and accessible playground for students at  the P rimary S chool.
3. Replacement of hot water tank at Turkey Hill Elementary  S c hool  
estimated at $20,000. 
 Chris M enard questions if there would be any  state funding 
available.  Dr. Kate Burnham states this kind of  project is 
currently not on their  accelerated repair projects that were 
deemed eligible. 
4. Generator and generator deck for the Primary School  quoted price of 
$141 ,896. Currently there is no generator, and this is r unning a risk of 
freezing water lines  and losing  items in fridge and freezers . 
 Peter  Beardmore confirms there is also a high rate of power 
outages in that area in Lunenburg. All the systems are being 
taxed in that building due to not having a generator.
5. Primary School window safety film  was estimated to cost  $26,865.
6. The replacement  of the security camera  is estimated  to cost $ 40,000. 
This will replace the current box as well as add an additional box.
 Chris Menard  questions if this security system will be the same or 
different as the system the town is currently putting in. Dr. Kate 
Burnham is unsure.
7. Middle High School window safety film quoted at $33,215.
8. A utility  p ickup truck with a plow quoted price of $ 64,7 80.  This would be
a Ford F 350 with plow and utility storage. This will replace the  2005 
F ord dump truck  that was r eceived from the DPW in 2022 .
FY27 Capital Request s  ( not in priority order )
1. Primary S chool expansion project  including the construction work .
2. Primary S chool age appropriate and accessible playground equipment .
Includes removal of existing equipment and installing new equipment.
 Chris Menard  suggests  Dr. Kate Burnham speak with Chris Ruth 
about the estimated quote they received.
3. Development and plans for gas condensing boilers at the Primary  
S chool . The estimated cost is  $ 30,000 .
===PAGE 3===
4. Phase 2 of the mini splits . Units have been installed during phase  1 . 
Grants were submitted through G reen C ommunities  and a rebate was 
received from Un itil .
5. Turkey H ill E lementary  S chool classroom mini splits .  Dr. Kate 
Burnham anticipates  applying for funding through G reen C ommunities. 
 Tom Alonzo is concerned about the efficiency and cost of electricity.
6. Middle H igh Sc hool turf field and complex  estimated to cost $ 920,000. 
This would include fixing  the hardscape and the drainage  in the hill 
behind the  bleacher and under the press box. It will cost an additional 
$ 500,000 to replace the turf and track.
7. Middle H igh S chool auditorium  booth audio up grades . The estimated 
cost is aro und $ 44,000 .
8. Installation of key card system at Middle H igh S chool , concession 
stand and field house .
 FY28  Capital Requests
1. Primary S chool gas condensing boiler replacement s. The Green 
Communities Committee is reviewing grant possibilities. 
2. Complete window replacement at Turkey H ill.
FY29 Capital Request
1. Pickup truck with plow to replace the 2012 F ord F 250 
 Chris Menard questions what the trucks are used for. Dr. Kate 
Burnham states they are used for  plowing, moving materials from 
buildings , and ground  maintenance .
FY 30  Capital Requests
1. Installation of new w indows at Turkey Hill.
2. Replacement of wall mounted projectors in all the classrooms and
common areas at the Middle H igh S chool .
3. Network firewall replacement is estimated  to cost $ 80,000 .
FY 31 Capital Requests
1. D istrict wide phone system upgrade. By the year 2031 the phone system
product currently used will no longer be supported.
2. Renovation or new build of Turkey Hill School.
FY 33  Capital Request
1. Lawnmower  replacement  is estimated  to cost $ 55,000 .
FY 34  Capital Request
===PAGE 4===
1. The Primary S chool and the roof mechanicals will be reaching end of 
life . There will need to be an engineering estimate and the replacement
of the roof mechanicals. 
Tom Alonzo asks what the status of the capital projects that were 
previously approved
Dr. Kate Burnham provide d  the below updates:
 - The  window film at Turkey H ill is 98% complete . They are 
awaiting  replacement of some large glass panes 
because they  were cracked.
 - There was a meeting last week with the architects to 
discuss the exterior door replacement at Turkey 
Hill. T he y estimate d  the door replacement 
including labor to cost over $ 150,000.
  T om Alonzo suggests  the possibility of using 
ARPA funding.
  - Turkey H ill fire alarm system in process .
 -Security and access projects for Turkey H ill  will be going out
to bid  in  mid-November . 
 - Phase 2  mini splits at  the  P rimary  School are being 
reviewed for grant possibilities through Green 
Communities.
 - The engineering assessment and ADA study of  Turkey H ill  
has received 7 bids. They anticipate awarding the 
bid on October 30 th .
 - A feasibility study of the t urf field has been 
completed using ARPA funds.
 - Phase 1 of the ac mini splits at the Primary S chool has 
been completed.
5. Discuss draft town fiscal policy manual
 Peter Beardmore  printed  out and provided  edits and notes from himself and Rob 
Bowen . This Includes references to actual  bylaws and policies.  The  intent of this 
document is for it to be adopt ed as the new policy.  Rob Bowen  states there is 
contradictory information in this document and the new policy. Peter  Beardmore 
stated that this manual  is intended to be a replacement for  the  current  policy.
Tom  Alonzo  is not comfortable  reviewing and Rob Bowen  believes someone 
needs to be hired as opposed to each different Committee submitting their edits.
Tom  Alonzo  believes the response should be that there are conflicting 
components in the policy versus  bylaws a n d charters .
Matt Brenner questions  if this will be well maintained  as bylaws change.
Peter Beardmore will communicate t o the Interim To wn M anager what the 
C ommittee has discussed, and Tom Alonzo will bring the general conversation to
 the Select Board.
===PAGE 5===
6. Review schedule, topics for future meetings
 October 23- Facilities Director Presentation 
 November 4 – DPW and Fire Presentations
Tom  Alonzo questions when the IT department will respond to schedule  their 
meeting.
7. Public Comment – public, committee
 There were no comments from the public or the Committee.
8. Adjourn
 There was a motion to adjourn by R ob B owen, seconded by C hris M enard . A ll in 
favor.
The meeting closed at 8:08 PM .