Department of 
Public Works
Fiscal Year 2026 Budget Request

Department of Public Works (DPW)
The Department of Public Works is the resources of the Highway, Cemetery, Sewer, and Vehicle Maintenance divisions combined to maintain roads, bridges, sewer infrastructure, and to provide services essential to the welfare and acceptable quality of life for the citizens of Lunenburg.



DPW Organizational Chart

Departmental Goals
:
 
Continue to respond to any weather, roadway infrastructure, or accident-related emergency that may arise on a 24 per day, 7 day per week, and 365 day per year basis.
Maintain and enhance a highly qualified and dedicated staff of public works professionals.
Continue to maintain and update the sewer system and associated pumping stations.
Continue to maintain roadways in accordance with the 2023-2027 pavement management plan.
Continue to maintain and repair sidewalks in accordance with the 2020 PROW ADA Transition plan.
Increase the number of roadsides mowed by developing a roadside maintenance plan.
Increase the number of catch basin and stormwater structures cleaned and the number of miles of roadways swept in accordance with the June 2020 Operations and Maintenance Plan prepared by Comprehensive Environmental
.
Increase training offered by our insurance provider to obtain credits to lessen premiums.  
Identify new sources (Federal, State, and other grants) of funding to supplement the operational budget.
Continue to maintain a high level of courteous communication and interaction between members of boards and commissions as well as Town residents.
Establish a comprehensive evaluation of bridges and culverts, and prioritize by condition, use, and plans for rehabilitation.
Strive to modernize the operations of the Department by obtaining and utilizing the most up to date equipment and methods.

Fiscal Year 2026 DPW Budget Request
This budget maintains the same level of services as Fiscal Year 2025.

DPW NEEDS
NOT INCLUDED IN THIS BUDGET REQUEST
Additional staff (Engineer, Administrative, Heavy Equipment Operator, Cemetery Laborers, Mechanic Assistant)
Additional funds for engineering support for drainage/stormwater repairs and upgrades
Additional funds to replace and/or upgrade guardrails
Additional equipment (
large snow fighter dump truck, pipe 
jetter
, pipe camera)
Additional funds for bridge repair/replacements
Additional funds for new sidewalks
Additional funds to met MS4 Permit requirements
Additional funds for liquid chemicals for anti-icing and de-icing

Fiscal Year 2025 DPW Budget Categories

294 TREE REMOVAL

411 GENERAL HIGHWAY





412 EXPENSES TOWN HIGHWAY GARAGE

420 HIGHWAY OVERTIME

421 HIGHWAY LABOR

423 SNOW REMOVAL



425 TRAFFIC SIGNS &amp; DEVICES

429 VEHICLE MAINTENANCE

433 RECYCLING PROGRAM



491 CEMETERY DEPARTMENT