Land Use FY26 Budget
Presented by Chris Reilly, Land Use Director

What Land Use Does:
Planning    Supports the Planning Board/APDC and land use        related B/C/Cs, provides planning recommendations
Conservation Supports the Conservation Commission
Building    Supports Land Use permitting &amp; inspectional services
 ZBA     Supports ZBA
The mission: We don't build and maintain Org Charts, we build the Team 

How Land Use Does it:
We require fees for applications of all kinds
External Peer Review paid for by applicants provides significant technical review for projects
A tech fee required by the Selects offsets the expense of our online permitting platform, 
OpenGov
. Proponents  submit applications to this convenient portal for review and efficient permitting, which is viewable by the public
Compliance/enforcement of B/C/C permitting authority

Why Land Use does it:
The Town through Town Meeting passes local land use regulations 
(Zoning Bylaws, Subdivision Regs, Wetlands, etc.) along with the building 
code, etc. that must be vetted and enforced. Land Use does most of this.
The process for vetting local land use control adoption (Zoning Bylaws) is 
managed by Land Use.
Under statute by the State, Land Use ensures the Town is in compliance with the law (MGL Chapter 40A, B, Wetlands Act. etc.)   

The Way Land Use Does it:
We don't have big capital expenses like other Departments
Most of our budget is necessary positions and admin support 
 to carry out the Land Use mission and support B/C/Cs,                             businesses and residents
We have small line items that provide for office supplies, logistical support and professional development, etc. Land Use runs lean, we have 5 core FTEs and PT Inspectors that fill in the rest.

FY26 Land Use Budget
Planning     Level funded from FY25 to FY 26
FY 25 $162,443       FY 26 $163,595
Conservation  Level funded + professional training
FY25 $84,570      FY26  $90,080
Building      Level funded 
FY 25 $169,725      FY26 $181,722
ZBA       Level funded
 FY 25 $4,328        FY26 $4,500

Thanks for your input and support!
Takeaways
The budget this year is similar to last year's and will be similar to next year's-the Land Use Budget is lean and predictable.
Emphasis on staff resources to support the B/C/Cs, investment and the residents to the best standards possible
Land Use is mission critical-it supports the vision, goals and rules of growth in the Town, promoting what we want and preventing what we don't