===PAGE 1===
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
FISCAL YEAR 2021 
 
                              
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT 
& 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
 
Annual Town Meeting 
June 13, 2020 - 9:00 A.M.  
Lunenburg Middle/High School Auditorium 
 
Annual Town Election  
June 20, 2020  
T.C. Passios Elementary School 
Polls open at 7:00 A.M. and close at 5:00 P.M. 
 
PLEASE BRING THIS WARRANT WITH YOU TO TOWN 
MEETING 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
3 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
2020 ANNUAL TOWN ELECTION WARRANT 
June 20, 2020 
 
Worcester, ss: 
To John E. Baker, Constable of the Town of Lunenburg, in the County of Worcester, Greetings: 
In the name  of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, you are hereby directed to notify and warn the 
inhabitants of the Town of Lunenburg, qualified to vote in elections and town affairs, to meet in the 
Thomas C. Passios School in said Lunenburg on Saturday, the 20th day of June next, at 7:00 o’clock in the 
forenoon, and then and there to act on the following: 
************************************************************************************* 
POLLS OPEN AT 7:00 A.M. POLLS SHALL BE CLOSED AT 5:00 P.M. 
************************************************************************************* 
Shall the Town vote to choose by ballot the following officers? 
 
SELECTMAN    3 YEARS 
SELECTMAN    3 YEARS 
SEWER COMMISSIONER  3 YEARS 
SEWER COMMISSIONER  3 YEARS 
SEWER COMMISSIONER  2 YEARS 
SEWER COMMISSIONER  1 YEAR 
BOARD OF HEALTH MEMBER 3 YEARS 
BOARD OF HEALTH MEMBER 3 YEARS 
ASSESSOR    3 YEARS 
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER 3 YEARS 
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER 3 YEARS 
PARK COMMISSIONER  3 YEARS 
COMMISSIONER OF TRUST FUNDS 3 YEARS 
CEMETERY COMMISSIONER 3 YEARS 
LIBRARY TRUSTEE   3 YEARS 
LIBRARY TRUSTEE   3 YEARS 
PLANNING BOARD MEMBER 5 YEARS 
PLANNING BOARD MEMBER 4 YEARS 
PLANNING BOARD MEMBER 1 YEAR 
HOUSING AUTHORITY  5 YEARS 
HOUSING AUTHORITY  4 YEARS 
 
And you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested copies thereof in four or more public places 
in the Town, seven (7) days at least before the day appointed for said meeting, one of which places shall 
be at the Town Hall, one a t Whalom Variety Store in the Whalom -Bakerville District, one at Powell’s, 
and one at Jaxx Variety, and by mailing a copy to each dwelling unit in the Town in which a registered 
voter resides at least seven (7) days prior to such election.   
Hereof, fail not and make due return of this Warrant, with your doings thereon, to the Town Clerk at the 
time and place aforesaid. 
Given under our hands, this 12th day of May in the year two thousand and twenty. 
 
        
A True Copy attest:     Thomas A. Alonzo, Chairman   
Kathryn M. Herrick, Town Clerk   Phyllis M. Luck, Vice-Chairman 
       Damon J. McQuaid, Clerk 
       Kathryn E. Adams, Member 
       Michael Ray Jeffreys, Member 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
4 
 
 
 
 
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM - A blueprint for planning a community ’s capital 
expenditures that comprises an annual capital budget and a five -year capital progra m.  It coordinates 
community planning, fiscal capacity and physical development.   
CHERRY SHEET /STATE AID  – Revenue allocated by the Commonwealth to cities, towns, and 
regional school districts.  Estimates of local aid are transmitted  to cities, towns, and dist ricts annually 
by the “Cherry Sheets”.  Most Cherry Sheet aid programs are considered general fund revenues and 
may be spent for any purpose, subject to appropriation. 
DEBT EXCLUSION- An action taken by a community through a referendum vote to raise the funds 
necessary to pay debt service costs for a particular project from the property tax levy but outside of the 
limits under Proposition 2 ½.  By approving a debt exclusion, a community calculates its annual levy 
limit under Proposition 2 ½, then adds the excluded debt service cost.  The amount is added to the levy 
limit for the life of the debt only and may increase the levy above the levy ceiling. 
EXCESS LEVY CAPACITY - The difference between the levy limit and the amount of real and 
personal property taxes actually levied in a given year.  Annually,  the Selectmen must be informed of 
excess levy capacity at the Tax Rate Hearing and this is submitted to DLS when setting the tax rate. 
FREE CASH – Remaining, unrestricted fu nds from operations of the previous fiscal year including 
unexpended free cash from the previous year, actual receipts in excess of revenue estimates shown on 
the tax recapitulation sheet, and unspent amounts in budget line -items.  Unpaid property taxes and 
certain deficits reduce the amount that can be certified as free cash.  The calculation of free cash is 
based on the balance sheet as of June 30, which is submitted by the Town Accounta nt.  Free Cash is 
not available for appropriation until certified by the Director of Accounts. 
LOCAL RECEIPTS - Locally generated revenues, other than real and personal property taxes.  
Examples include motor vehicle excise, investment in come, meals tax, fees, rentals, and charges.  
Annual estimates of local receipts are shown on the tax rate recapitulation sheet. 
OVERLAY – (Allowance for Abatements and Exemptions) An account established annually to fund 
anticipated property tax abatements, exemptions  and unc ollected taxes in that year.  It need not be 
funded by the normal appropriation process, but rather is raised on the tax rate recapitulation sheet. 
RESERVE FUND - This fund is used by the Finance Committee to provide for extraordinary or 
unforeseen expenditures.  The total amount appropriated in any one year may not exceed 5% of the tax 
levy.  No direct drafts against this fund can be made, but transfers from  the fund can be authorized by 
the Finance Committee. 
RETAINED EARNINGS-  An equity account reflecting the accumulated earnings of an enterprise 
fund, which may be used to fund capit al improvements, r eimburse the general fund for prior year 
subsidies, reduce user charges, or provide for enterprise revenue deficits (operating losses). 
STABILIZATION FUND  – A fund designed to accumulate amounts for capital and other future 
spending purposes, although it may be appropriated for any lawf ul purpose.  Communities  may 
establish one or more stabilization funds for different purposes and may appropriate any amounts into 
them.  A two-thirds vote of town meeting is required to establish, amend the purpose of, or appropriate 
money from a stabilization fund.  A majority vote of town meeting is required to appropriate money 
into a stabilization fund.   
 
 
 
 
RECOMMEND APPROVAL:  The board voted to recommend passage by Town Meeting. 
NOT RECOMMENDED:   The board voted to not recommend passage by Town Meeting. 
NO RECOMMENDATION:  The board voted to make no specific recommendation to Town 
Meeting.   
DEFERRED:  A recommendation will be announced by this board when the article is considered 
at Town Meeting. 
 
DEFINITIONS OF RECOMMENDATIONS UNDER EACH ARTICLE 
FINANCIAL TERMS 
===PAGE 5===
5 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE REPORT 
Fiscal Year 2021 
 
The annual Town meeting is an important event for community members to come together and vote on 
warrants that directly impact how we manage our Town. Under this umbrella is the town budget. 
Throughout the year the Town Manager and Department Heads carefully review expenses and have 
thoughtful conversations about how to best serve the town. While developing the budget they considered 
funding, contracts, and mandates, as well as what the community wants and needs to thrive. A target 
budget was finalized and presentations were in the process of being made by the Town Manager and 
Department Heads through several Finance Committee forums. The process came to a halt when we were 
struck by the Coronavirus Pandemic. Suddenly, people were staying at home and being out of work. This 
was followed by an immediate reduction in normal tax revenue (which continues to dwindle). This means 
our projections for State Aid, local receipts, and other revenue have been decreased (down $300,290 from 
the pre-COVID19 budget). To account for this shortfall, and anticipate future revenue shortfalls, the 
budgets of several departments and plans were reduced to leave a $1,055,950 surplus. Even with this, the 
budget maintains level service funding for all departments. Some significant reductions from the target 
budget are:  
 Lunenburg Public Schools $192,157 
 Capital Plan   $664,333 
 DPW       $102,000 
 Additional Firefighter  $95,359 
 Additional Police Officer $84,664 
 
It is important to note the whole budget will get a fresh review for the fall Special Town Meeting. By that 
time, clearer revenue projections should be available. It could mean that more revenue will come in, or it 
could mean that we need to use the surplus to stay afloat. While we need to implement a budget now, but 
there will be opportunities to make changes to the budget in the future. The total requested budget 
appropriation is $38,658,115. 
Armed with all that information, the Finance Committee recommends the budget as put forth by the Town 
Manager. It is clearly acknowledging that the budget does the best is can with the resources available. The 
budget, as a whole, is conservative, relying on only available tax levy and state aid for operating and 
capital expenses. It also makes deposits into our stabilization account to allow for future use towards 
unanticipated expenses or to be available for other funding needs that could arise due to COVID19. The 
OPEB allocation, the deposit we make into a fund to pay for future retiree benefits, is also being re-
allocated to the stabilization fund. Each department also played a crucial role in making the budget work. 
As was seen during the budget presentations, all departments follow a sincere mission to serve our 
community.  They have goals and initiatives to constantly improve their services to the town. It is with a 
heavy heart that some of the work toward these goals will have to be put on hold. We are grateful for the 
grace with which departments responded to the impacts of the Coronavirus Pandemic. 
While the budget ultimately boils down to dollars and cents, there are factors not easily captured by 
money but are worth mentioning as a way to look holistically at the financial picture of our Town, not just 
as a response to COVID19. 
 The largest part of the Town budget is the school budget. It is 57% of the Town’s expenses, at 
$22,029,972 (including Monty Tech assessment). Additionally, the Town budget includes 
$1,076,000 in other school-related costs such as School Retiree Health Insurance. This is all 
===PAGE 6===
6 
 
significant dollars but still falls short of what is proposed by the school department for best 
serving our students. Projected School State Aid (Chapter 70) funding changes resulting from the 
Student Opportunity Act have a projected negative impact on Lunenburg. In fact, state aid 
increased at a smaller rate (down 1.1% or $78,483 less than last year) while the amount 
Lunenburg has to pay both our school system and Monty Tech increased at a higher rate (5.85% 
or $356,763 and 0.92% or $88,131, respectively). The state’s recalculation of Chapter 70 aid was 
primarily aimed at high poverty districts and we did not qualify. Without increased Chapter 70 
funding the school budget is constrained by the tax levy. 
 The capital plan was cut in half to contribute to the surplus necessary to prepare for what may lie 
ahead in revenue shortfalls. What is being proposed is being funded entirely by free cash with no 
additional funds from tax levy. We all agree on the importance of maintaining Town assets and 
keeping ahead of obsolescence and disrepair. The recommendations are based on the Capital 
Planning Committee’s prioritization of the requests approved. The current budget funds 12 of 
those recommendations. More may be funded if there is revenue to do so in the fall. Please note 
the Finance Committee deferred on making a recommendation on the Capital Plan until the 
annual Town Meeting to allow for final revenue adjustments. 
 New Growth revenue for Lunenburg is trending down. The five-year financial forecast posted a 
new growth estimate for 2021 at $173,400. The proposed budget is conservative and can absorb 
the potential revenue loss. However, without significant housing projects (like Tri-Town and 
Emerald Place) new growth figures are not expected to reach prior levels within the next three 
years. 
 Some of our departments fund regular, ongoing expenses with donations and grants. Those 
funding sources are not guaranteed but the services they fund are vital. To ensure those services 
are dependably funded, the Town has taken on some facilities expenses for the Library and some 
kitchen staff personnel expenses for the Council on Aging as part of the regular Town budget. 
 Lunenburg’s debt ratio has been evaluated as “poor” by an independent agency. There will be a 
significant drop in debt service as we pay off the Public Safety Building and Primary School 
loans in 2024. However, it is likely we will take on more debt to cover future needs, such as what 
may be necessary for Turkey Hill Elementary School. There are no easy answers for debt 
management. The Finance Committee will be putting together a Debt Project group with the goal 
of better understanding the issue and its ramifications to the Town. 
 
The F21 budget is not easy for anyone to accept. It is understood that it does not meet the financial 
policies of the Town (re-allocated OPEB) nor does it meet the needs of the Town on an ongoing basis. 
Right now it is the best that can be done under the circumstances we are in. For that reason, the Finance 
Committee is supporting the budget. Because the budget is conservative the Town will be in a better 
position to navigate uncertain waters that may lie ahead in FY21 and FY22 as COVID19 unfolds further. 
We know Lunenburg will rise to the challenges of the years to come. This year’s budget keeps us moving 
in the right direction. 
The Finance Committee thanks the Town Manager and all Department Heads for their exemplary service 
to the citizens of Lunenburg. They demonstrate genuine caring for our community and the role they have 
in shaping the quality of our lives every day. 
Finance Committee 
Terri Burchfield, Chairman 
Michelle Walton, Vice-Chairman 
Peter Beardmore, Clerk 
John Henshaw 
Jay Simeone 
David Passios 
 
===PAGE 7===
7 
 
FY 2021 CAPITAL PLAN 
The Capital Planning Committee presented the Fiscal Year 2021 plan to the Town Manager in January as 
required by Charter and the Town Manager included all the recommendations, as prioritized by the 
Capital Planning Committee, in her presentation to the Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee in the 
latter half of January.   
Below is the original FY2021 Capital Plan recommended in January of 2020: 
 
 
 
Due to the coronavirus outbreak in March and the projected economic impact to the town’s finances, the 
Town Manager met with the Capital Planning Committee on April 16th to inform the Committee that the 
portion of the Plan that was to be funded from tax revenues, $650,000 of the $1,329,133, would need to 
be deferred until the fall Special Town Meeting, when we would have a better financial picture of the 
impact of the shutdown on the town’s revenues.  The Committee reviewed all of the projects at this 
meeting and re-voted a new recommendation.  Their new recommendation reprioritized some projects and 
the revised total cost of the Plan is $664,800, which uses $14,333 less of Free Cash than the original 
recommendation. 
 
FY2021
Priority # CIP# Dept. Project Name Category Projected
1 FM20-01 DPW Town Hall, ADA Ramp/Sidewalk Facilities $22,000
2 INFRA20-01 Highway Flat Hill Culvert Design Infrastructure $112,500
3 LPS16-19-C Schools THES Asbestos Abatement/Ceiling Replacement Facilities $123,500
4 PD19-01 Police Police Vehicle, 1 Marked New Vehicle $67,000
5 FD17-05-B Fire SCBA Complement, Replacement (1/2) Equipment $115,000
6 PD16-14 Police Police Vehicle, 1 Marked Replacement Vehicle $67,000
7 FD16-20-A Fire ALS Equipment Phase 1 Equipment $54,800
8 PD20-01 Police ACO Vehicle Vehicle $26,000
9 FD20-01 Fire Midlife Overhaul of Squad 3 Vehicle $65,000
10 PD16-18 Police Portable Radios Equipment $45,000
11 LPS19-03-A Schools Design AC for Classrooms at Primary Planning $10,000
12 DPW16-10 Highway Trackless & Attachments Vehicle $170,000
13 FM17-16A DPW Senior Center, Reconfigure Front Entrance Facilities $24,000
14 DPW17-11 Highway One Ton Dump with Plow Vehicle $58,833
15 FM16-02 DPW PSB, Carport Reconfiguration Facilities $135,000
16 FM20-06 DPW Senior Center, Kitchen Remodel Facilities $22,000
17 LPS19-02 Schools Admin Air Conditioning, THES Facilities $28,000
18 FM16-11 DPW Library, Carpet Facilities $126,000
19 FM20-07 DPW Ritter, Kitchen Remodel Facilities $12,000
20 FM20-02 DPW Ritter, ADA Ramp Design Facilities $25,500
21 FM20-10 DPW Cemetery Parking Lot Facilities $20,000
Total Capital Plan $1,329,133
Funding: Raise & appropriate $650,000
Free cash $679,133
Unexpended Capital 
Premium Reserved for Capital
Total $1,329,133
===PAGE 8===
8 
 
 
Here is the revised FY 2021 Capital Plan as recommended by both the Capital Planning Committee and 
the Town Manager: 
 
 
 
Capital Planning Committee 
Damon McQuaid, Chairman, BOS Representative 
John Henshaw, Vice-Chairman, Finance Committee Representative 
Caroline Griffis, Clerk, Member at Large 
Matthew Allison, Member, Planning Board Representative 
Jim LaVeck, Member, School Committee Representative 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revised FY21 CP 
Revised 
Priority # CIP# Dept. Project Name Category
for ATM
1 FM20-01 DPW Town Hall, ADA Ramp/Sidewalk Facilities $22,000
2 INFRA20-01 Highway Flat Hill Culvert Design Infrastructure $112,500
3 LPS16-19-C Schools THES Asbestos Abatement/Ceiling Replacement Facilities $123,500
4 PD19-01 Police Police Vehicle, 1 Marked New Vehicle $67,000
5 FD17-05-B Fire SCBA Complement, Replacement (1/2) Equipment $115,000
6 FD16-20-A Fire ALS Equipment Phase 1 Equipment $54,800
7 PD20-01 Police ACO Vehicle Vehicle $26,000
8 FD20-01 Fire Midlife Overhaul of Squad 3 Vehicle $65,000
9 PD16-18 Police Portable Radios Equipment $45,000
10 LPS19-03-A Schools Design AC for Classrooms at Primary Planning $10,000
11 FM17-16A DPW Senior Center, Reconfigure Front Entrance Facilities $24,000
Total Capital Plan $664,800
Funding: Raise & appropriate $0
Free cash $664,800
Unexpended Capital $0
Premium Reserved for Capital $0
Total $664,800
===PAGE 9===
9 
 
INDEX OF JUNE 13, 2020 ANNUAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
Article Description Cost Source 
1 Reports from Committees N/A N/A 
2 Re-Authorize Revolving Funds $266,000 Various Revenue 
Sources 
3 Payment of Prior Year Expenses $476.21 Transfer from Free Cash 
4 Amendments to Appropriations 
and Sources of Funds for FY2020 
TBD Transfer from Available 
Funds 
5 Police Union CBA $0  
6 FY 2021 Capital Improvement 
Plan 
$664,800 Transfer from Free Cash 
7 FY 2021 Omnibus Budget $38,658,115 Raise & Appropriate & 
Transfer 
8 Stabilization Fund $210,000 Transfer from Free Cash 
9 Amendments to FY2020 Sewer 
Enterprise Budget 
TBD Transfer from Available 
Funds 
10 FY 2021 Sewer Enterprise Budget  Anticipated Receipts 
and Retained Earnings 
& Transfer 
11 Sewer Capital Reserve 
Stabilization Fund 
$30,000 Transfer from Retained 
Earnings 
12 Sewer - OPEB Trust Fund Deposit $656 Transfer from Retained 
Earnings 
13 FY 2021 Solid Waste Disposal 
Program Enterprise Budget 
$302,000 Solid Waste Disposal 
Enterprise Revenues 
14 FY 2021 Water Enterprise Budget $25,000 Water Enterprise 
Revenues 
15 FY 2021 PEG Access Budget $191,000 PEG Access Anticipated 
Receipts and Retained 
Earnings 
16 Amendments to Salary 
Administration Plan  
N/A N/A 
17 Home Rule Petition for Investment 
of Library Trust Funds 
N/A N/A 
18 TCP Building Design Committee 
Report 
N/A N/A 
19 Amendment to Animals Bylaw 
§110-3 
N/A N/A 
20 Amendment to General Provisions 
Bylaw §1-3 
N/A N/A 
21 Conversion of Streetlights to LED 
by Unitil or Purchase of 
Streetlights 
Option 1:Approx. 
$66,000 
Option 2:  Approx. 
$91,000 
Transfer from Available 
Funds 
22 Substantive Amendment to Earth 
Removal Bylaw §140 
N/A N/A 
23 Amendment to Earth Removal 
Bylaw §140 to change permitting 
authority 
N/A N/A 
24 Citizen’s Petition-Home Rule 
Petition for Additional Liquor 
License 
N/A N/A 
===PAGE 10===
10 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING WARRANT 
 
June 13, 2020
Worcester, ss: 
To:  John E. Baker, Constable of the Town of Lunenburg, in the County of Worcester, Greetings: 
 
In the name of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, you are hereby directed  to notify and warn the 
inhabitants to the Town of Lunenburg, qualified to vote in elections and town affairs, to meet in the 
Lunenburg Middle/High School Auditorium in said Lunenburg on Saturday, the 13th day of June next, at 
9:00 o'clock in the morning (9:00 A.M.), for the purpose of taking action on the Town Meeting Warrant, and 
then and there to act on the following articles, viz: 
 
 
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING ARTICLES 
 
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of the 
Town Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the 
Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:    No Recommendation   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 2.  To see if the Town will vote to authorize revolving funds for various departments, 
boards, committees, agencies or officers pursuant to Massachusetts General Law Chapter 44, 
Section 53E ½ for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2020 to be expended in accordance with 
Chapter 138 of the Town’s General By-laws; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:      Recommend Approval  
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:    Recommend Approval  
 
Revolving Fund FY21 Spending  
Limit 
Ambulance Billing $100,000 
Timber Rights $10,000 
School Custodial Special Details $13,000 
Green Thumb $5,000 
Library Revolving $12,000 
Council on Aging/MART Revolving $45,000 
Stormwater Task Force $5,000 
Electrical, Gas, Plumbing Inspector $46,000 
Technology  $30,000 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 11===
11 
 
ARTICLE 3.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative 
thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:    Recommend Approval   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 4.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of money 
necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town’s FY 2020 Budget, under Article 7 of the 
May 4, 2019 Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 12, 2019 Special Town 
Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto.  (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:   Deferred     
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION: Deferred  
 
ARTICLE 5.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to fund the first year of the FY 20, FY 21 and FY 22 Police Officers 
Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2019 – June 30, 2022 with IBPO Local 353, 
AFL-CIO; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:    Recommend Approval   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval  
 
ARTICLE 6.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from 
available funds a sum of money for the FY 2021 Capital Plan, as appearing in the Capital 
Planning Committee Report, or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town 
Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Deferred        
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval (3-1-1)   
 
ARTICLE 7.   To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2021 and to fix 
the salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items included in 
the budget of the Town Manager; or take any other action thereto. (Submitted by the Town 
Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Recommend Approval        
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval (4-1)   
 
ARTICLE 8.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Deferred   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:   Recommend Approval  
 
ARTICLE 9.  To see if the Town will vote  to transfer from available funds, all sums of money 
necessary to amend the amounts voted to operate the FY2020 Sewer Enterprise Fund, under 
Article 12 of the May 4, 2019 Annual Town Meeting, and Article 3 of the November 12, 2019 
===PAGE 12===
12 
 
Special Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer 
Commission) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:    Deferred    
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Deferred  
ARTICLE 10.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds, a sum of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2021; or take any action 
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:    Recommend Approval   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 11.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds $30,000 into the 
Sewer Capital Reserve Stabilization Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by the Sewer Commission) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Recommend Approval   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval  
ARTICLE 12.  To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, the sum of $656 
into the OPEB Sewer Trust Fund; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the 
Sewer Commission) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Recommend Approval    
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval  
ARTICLE 13.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds a sum of money to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program Enterprise Fund for FY 
2021; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Recommend Approval   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 14.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds a sum of money to operate the Water Department/Water Enterprise Fund for FY 2021; or 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Deferred   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 15.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available 
funds the sum of $191,000 to operate the Public Educational Government (PEG) Access 
Enterprise Fund for FY 2021; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by PAC 
Committee) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Recommend Approval   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:   Recommend Approval 
 
 
===PAGE 13===
13 
 
ARTICLE 16.  To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 70 of the Town’s General By-
laws, entitled “Salary Administration Plan,” as follows: the position of Videographer to be added 
and assigned to Grade 3; the position of Senior Videographer to be added and assigned to Grade 
6; and the position of Water Safety Instructor to be added and assigned to Grade 4; or take any 
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee)   
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Recommend Approval   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval  
 
ARTICLE 17.  To see if the Town will vote to file a Home Rule Petition with the General Court 
for a special law authorizing the investment of Library trust funds and any future bequests to the 
Library in accordance with the prudent investor rule and related statutes.  The proposed Special 
Act would read as follows: 
 
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE INVESTMENT OF TOWN OF LUNENBURG LIBRARY 
TRUST FUNDS  
 
SECTION 1.  Notwithstanding any general or special law to the contrary, the treasurer of the 
town of Lunenburg may invest library trust funds and any future bequests to the library in the 
custody of the treasurer in accordance with the prudent investor rule and sections 3, 4, 5, 8 and 9 
of chapter 203C of the General Laws.  The treasurer, in consultation with the town’s library trust 
fund committee, shall develop investment policies which shall include an asset allocation policy 
and shall select professional investment advisors to manage such funds. 
 
SECTION 2.  Section 54 of chapter 44 of the General Laws shall not apply to the town of 
Lunenburg library trust funds. 
 
SECTION 3.  This act shall take effect upon its passage. 
 
Or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Library Board of Trustees) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Recommend Approval   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 18.  To see if the Town will vote to hear an interim report from the TCP Building 
Design Committee and/or from representative(s) from the design firm; or take any other action 
relative thereto.(Submitted by the TCP Building Design Committee) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     No Recommendation   
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
ARTICLE 19.  To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 110 of the Town’s General 
Bylaws, entitled “Animals,” by deleting therefrom in its entirety Section 110-3, entitled “Dog 
kennels,” and substituting the following therefor: 
 
A. Any person maintaining a kennel, as defined in MGL c. 140, § 136A, shall obtain a 
kennel license in accordance with MGL c. 140, § l37A, by first applying for a kennel 
license with the Town Clerk. A copy of a special permit from the Zoning Board of 
Appeals must be included or such application shall be denied. Upon review of the 
application the Animal Control Officer shall inspect the proposed facility for 
compliance with all applicable Massachusetts General Laws prior to the issuance of a 
kennel license and anytime thereafter, should the license issue. 
===PAGE 14===
14 
 
 
B. Any person who receives a kennel license shall comply with the confinement and 
other provisions of MGL c. 140, § 174E. 
 
C. The licensing authority of the Town of Lunenburg shall issue a kennel license without 
charge to a domestic charitable corporation incorporated exclusively for the purpose of 
protecting animals from cruelty, neglect or abuse or for the relief of suffering. 
 
D. Petitions or complaints against any kennel may be filed in accordance with MGL c. 
140, § 137C. 
 
E. Any person who violates the provisions of this by law shall be subject to Article 1 
section 1-3; provided, however, that the Town may pursue enforcement and collect 
such fines or penalties as may otherwise be authorized by law; 
 
Or to take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Police Chief) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:      Recommend Approval (5-0-1)  
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:   Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 20.  To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 1 of the Town’s General 
By-laws, entitled “General Provisions,” Section 1-3, entitled “Noncriminal disposition,” by 
adding the following to the list of bylaws included within the scope thereof: 
 
General Bylaws  Enforcing Person   Fine 
 
Chapter 110, § 3, Dog  Animal Control Officer and  First offense: $100.00 
kennels   Police Officers   Second and subsequent                                                      
         offenses:  $300.00 
          
or to take any other action relative thereto.(Submitted by the Police Chief) 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:    No Recommendation (5-1-0)       
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval 
 
ARTICLE 21.  To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from 
available funds, a sum of money for the purpose of converting the Town’s existing street 
streetlights to energy efficient and long lasting LED fixtures or, alternatively, acquiring said 
streetlights for potential future conversion to energy efficient and long lasting LED fixtures; or 
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Green Communities Task Force) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:     Deferred    
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:   Deferred 
 
ARTICLE 22.  To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, by deleting 
from Chapter 140 of the Town’s General By-laws, entitled “Excavations and Earth Removal,” 
both Article I, entitled “Earth Removal,” and Article II, entitled “Excavations,” in their entirety, 
and substituting the language below therefor; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted 
by the Planning Board) 
===PAGE 15===
15 
 
 
§ 140-1 Purpose.  
The purpose of this article and associated regulations is to regulate earth removal operations for 
the protection of human health, public safety, welfare, and the Town's natural resources in the 
Town of Lunenburg. Further, the provisions of this article are intended to protect abutting 
property owners from dust, washouts, noise, ponds, and other hazardous land conditions that 
could potentially be created by poorly managed earth removal operations. 
 
§ 140-2 Definitions.  
As used in this bylaw, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated: 
ABUTTERS  
The owners of property within 300 feet of the perimeter of the subject property. 
APPLICANT  
The owner of land from which earth will be removed, or the person of lawful standing in the 
stead of such owner. Any person, company, or agent standing instead of the actual property 
owner must have the owner's written permission to do so. 
BOARD  
The Planning Board of the Town of Lunenburg, which shall act as the permit granting 
authority (PGA). 
EARTH  
This term shall include soil, loam, sand, gravel, clay, peat, rock, or other native earth 
material in solid form. 
EARTH REMOVAL OPERATION  
Any commercial mining, stripping, quarrying, digging or blasting of earth originating from 
the Town of Luneburg and its transportation into or out of the Town of Lunenburg. 
EROSION  
The process by which the ground surface is worn by forces such as wind, running water, 
ice, abrasion, gravity, transportation or by artificial means. 
GRAVEL  
Loose fragments of rock or coarse aggregate resulting from natural disintegration and 
abrasion of rock or processing of weakly bound conglomerate. 
LOAM OR TOPSOIL  
A soil consisting of a friable mixture of varying proportions of clay, sand, silt, and organic 
matter. 
PGA  
The permit granting authority, which will be the Planning Board for the purposes of this 
article. 
PROCESSING  
The sorting or separation of earth materials into distinct categories based on particle size or 
type usually through the use of a screening process, not including stone crushing. 
===PAGE 16===
16 
 
SILT  
Loose sedimentary material with rock particles usually less than 1/16 mm or less in 
diameter based on the Wentworth scale of measurement. 
SITE  
A distinct portion of one or more contiguous lots, under the same or different ownerships, 
on which an earth removal operation is conducted, or is proposed to be conducted, under the 
permit. 
SLOPE  
An area that is more or less steep, as measured by the vertical rise over the horizontal 
distance, expressed as a percentage or ratio. For example, a rise of one foot over three 
horizontal feet is a slope of 33% and is expressed as a ratio of 3:1 slope. 
STONE CRUSHING  
The mechanical operation which creates smaller-sized stones or stone products from larger-
sized stones, boulders or particles typically using a crushing plant or similar machinery. 
 
§ 140-3 Applicability.  
A. All earth removal operations in the Town shall provide the following information, in 
writing, to the Building Inspector within six months of the effective date of this article: 
(1) The map and parcel number of the subject property;  
(2) An estimate of the amount of material left to be removed (if earth removal);  
(3) An estimate of the anticipated annual volume of activity;  
(4) A description of completed and planned reclamation of the property;  
(5) The date the operation began; and  
(6) The anticipated date of completion or cessation of the operations.  
B. Except as provided in § 140-4 or 140-5, a permit shall be required for any of the 
following activities: 
(1) Earth removal that involves 1500 cubic yards or more of material per calendar year 
(January through December).  
C. An earth removal operation that does not exceed any of the above thresholds shall not 
require a permit but is subject to the following requirements (unless otherwise agreed to, 
in writing, by the abutting property owner): 
(1) The operation shall not encroach closer than 50 feet to a property line; and  
(2) No greater than a 3:1 slope shall exist between the operation and the fifty-foot (50’) 
buffer. 
 
§ 140-4 Exemptions.  
The following earth removal operations are exempted from the requirement to obtain a permit 
under this article:  
===PAGE 17===
17 
 
A. Earth removal associated with the installation of septic systems, which shall be governed by 
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Environmental Code (Title 5, 310 CMR 15.000).  
B. Earth removal associated with any activity, which shall be governed by MGL c. 143 and the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts Building Code (780 CMR).  
C. Earth removal that involves less than 1500 cubic yards.  
D. Earth removal, where the operation occurs entirely within an individual parcel and where a 
Town-accepted public way is not used for the transportation of the material.  
E. Earth removal within the right-of-way for a new subdivision road that has been approved by 
the Planning Board where there is already a bond in place with the Town to ensure 
performance.  
F. Earth removal in conjunction with a Driveway Permit issued by the Town of Lunenburg. 
The aforementioned items are exempted provided that they do not exceed any of the following 
thresholds: 
i) the earth removal operation is limited to no more than three contiguous lots and does 
not exceed a total area of six acres, and 
ii) the operation is not conducted, maintained, and/or left in a condition so as to alter the 
natural drainage flow beyond the property; or to cause dust, silt, soil, or other 
materials to be deposited on adjacent properties; or to otherwise cause nuisances, 
hazards, or other objectionable conditions detrimental to health, safety, or property 
values in adjacent areas.  
iii) The excavation is not active for a period of time greater than is reasonable for the 
activity being conducted.  
iv) Any earth removal is limited to the necessary scope of the project.  
The PGA shall, upon petition by an abutter or by any Town Official or Town Board, review an 
operation that is proceeding as exempt from the permit requirement pursuant to this § 140-4. If it 
is determined that the operation does not qualify for any of the exemptions outlined in § 140-4, a 
permit will be required. 
 
§ 140-5 Continuation of Existing soil removal operations.  
A. An existing operation that had been issued a permit by the Board of Selectmen under the 
Earth Removal Bylaw that was in effect prior to the effective date of this Bylaw may 
continue to operate according to the terms of such permit, which shall hereafter be 
enforceable by the PGA pursuant to this article.  
B. The right of an existing operation to operate pursuant to § 140-5A under a permit 
previously issued by the Board of Selectmen, or to operate without a permit pursuant to 
§ 140-5B, shall expire if the operation is discontinued. An operation shall be deemed to 
have been discontinued if no earth removal activity occurs at the site for a period of 12 
consecutive months. 
 
===PAGE 18===
18 
 
§ 140-6 Permit criteria for earth removal operations.  
A. Permits for earth removal operations shall be granted by the PGA only upon its written 
determination that the proposed use shall not cause substantial detriment to the 
neighborhood, or the Town, taking into account the characteristics of the site and the 
proposal in relation to the site and surrounding environment. In addition to any specific 
factors that may be set forth elsewhere in this article and its associated regulations adopted 
pursuant to § 140-8, such determination shall include consideration of each of the 
following: 
(1) Social, economic, or community needs which are served by the proposal;  
(2) Impact of the Earth Removal Operation on traffic flow and safety, including loading and 
unloading;  
(3) Neighborhood character and the effect of the proposed Earth Removal Operation on that 
character;  
(4) Impacts on the natural environment, including any proposed remediation for Earth Removal 
Activities; and  
(5) Potential fiscal impact, including impact on Town services, tax base and property values.  
B. Determination for each of the five criteria shall be set forth in the permit decision as 
findings of fact.  
§ 140-7 General limitations.  
A. No permit shall be issued for the removal of earth in any location if such an operation: 
(1) Will endanger the public safety, public health or constitute a nuisance.  
(2) Will produce noise, dust, or other noxious effects observable at the lot lines of the property 
in amounts objectionable or detrimental to the normal use of adjacent properties.  
(3) Will result in the transportation of materials in such manner as to cause traffic congestion, 
dust, spillage, noise, or other nuisances or hazards, particularly on residential streets.  
(4) Will result in the transportation over ways which will be unduly injured thereby.  
(5) Will result in a change of topography and cover which will be disadvantageous to the most 
appropriate final use of the land or to the use of lands adjacent to the site.  
(6) Will cause irreparable harm to or loss of important wildlife, wildlife habitat or rare plant 
species indigenous to the area.  
(7) Will result in stormwater damaging abutting properties.  
B. Applicants are encouraged to submit a written statement regarding how each of the previous 
items will be addressed and/or mitigated.  
§ 140-8 Regulations.  
The PGA may adopt and periodically amend rules and regulations for the implementation of this 
article, by majority vote. Such rules and regulations may set forth performance standards for 
===PAGE 19===
19 
 
earth removal operations, impose filing and consultant fees, define additional terms not 
inconsistent with the article, and establish administrative procedures. Proposed Rules and 
Regulations shall be adopted by the PGA at a public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be 
published by the PGA in a newspaper of general circulation in each of two successive weeks, the 
first publication being not less than 14 days before the day of said hearing. Failure by the PGA to 
adopt such rules and regulations or a legal declaration of their invalidity by a court of law shall 
not act to suspend or invalidate the effect of this article. 
§ 140-9 Permit procedures.  
A. Any person wishing to obtain a permit to remove material on a property in the Town, or to 
use any public way within the Town for transporting such material, shall file a completed 
application for a permit together with any required supporting data and maps with the PGA 
and the filing fee, as established in the regulations of the PGA.  
B. Any permit issued is nontransferable and shall automatically expire upon completion of the 
earth removal project for which it was issued or at such time as may be specified in said 
permit. In no case shall a permit be issued initially for a period longer than one year. A 
permit may be renewed for up to two years or lesser time as determined by the PGA after 
evidence is presented that all conditions of the expiring permit have been complied with and 
the work has been performed in good faith. There is no limit on the number of permit 
renewals an applicant can apply for. A public hearing may be required by the PGA, at its 
discretion, for renewal of permits. 
 
C. Upon approval of all permits will expire on the following June 30. Thereafter all 
renewals will be for a period of 1 or 2 years running from July 1 to June 30.  
 
§ 140-10 Public hearing.  
A. Once a complete permit application is filed with the PGA, the PGA shall set a date for a 
public hearing and so notify the applicant. Notice of the hearing shall be published by the 
PGA, at the applicant's expense, in a newspaper of general circulation in each of two 
successive weeks, the first publication being not less than 14 days before the day of said 
hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be given to all owners of real estate abutting upon the 
land specified in the permit application or lying within 300 feet of the subject parcel, all 
as appearing on the most recent tax list. The PGA will arrange for the publication and 
transmission of the notice of the hearing to the abutters, and the costs will be billed to the 
applicant. Final approval for the permit shall not be made until all hearing fees have been 
paid in full. 
 
B. The PGA's final action, rendered in writing, shall consist of either: 
(1) Approval of the application based upon determination that the proposed plan is in 
compliance with the standards set forth in this Bylaw; or 
 
(2) Disapproval of the application based upon a determination that the proposed plan does 
not meet the standards set forth in this Bylaw; or 
 
(3) Approval of the application subject to any condition, modification or restriction required 
by the Planning Board which will ensure that the project meets the standards set forth in 
this Bylaw. 
 
===PAGE 20===
20 
 
§ 140-11 Bond or security.  
The Board may require suitable bond or other security adequate to assure compliance with any of 
the provisions of this bylaw. 
 
§ 140-12 Enforcement; violations and penalties.  
A. The PGA or its authorized agent shall enforce this article, its regulations, and the 
requirements and conditions of permits issued thereunder and may pursue civil and 
criminal remedies for violations of the same.  
B. The Building Inspector is authorized to conduct inspections on behalf of the PGA. To the 
extent permitted by law, or if authorized by the owner, operator, or other person in 
control of the site, the Building Inspector or other agent of the PGA may enter on the site 
to conduct inspections.  
C. The Building Inspector or other authorized agent of the PGA may issue such orders as are 
deemed necessary to stop violations and ensure compliance with this article, its 
regulations, and permits, including an order to cease and desist operations. Such orders 
may be issued by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by delivery, to the property 
owner, permit holder, or person responsible for operations at the site.  
D. The PGA may seek injunctive relief to restrain violations or to compel abatement or 
remediation of violations.  
E. Any person who violates any provision of this article or regulations, permits, and orders 
issued thereunder may be punished by a fine of not more than $300 per offense. Each day 
that such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.  
F. As an alternative to a criminal fine, the Town may utilize the noncriminal disposition 
procedures of MGL c. 40, § 21D, in which case the Building Inspector shall be the 
enforcing person. The penalty for the first offense shall be $50. The penalty for the 
second offense shall be $100. The penalty for the third and subsequent offenses shall be 
$200.  
G. If the violator holds a permit issued under this article, the PGA may revoke the permit 
after a public hearing, at which point all operations shall cease until such time as the 
necessary measures are taken to assure compliance with this article and a new permit is 
issued. 
 
§ 140-13 Severability.  
The provisions of this article are severable, and the invalidity of any section, subdivision, 
paragraph, or other part of this article shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the 
remainder of the article. 
 
§140-14 Road Openings 
A. Permit Required; liability for cost: 
 
 No Town way or other way, whether it be the traveled or untraveled portion thereof, 
which the Town of Lunenburg is, by law, obligated to maintain and keep in repair shall 
be dug up, no opening made therein for any purpose, nor shall any material be dumped or 
placed thereon or removed therefrom, and no obstruction or structure shall be placed 
thereon or removed therefrom or changed without written permit from a majority of the 
===PAGE 21===
21 
 
Board of Selectmen and then only in accordance with the Board's regulations and the 
work shall be done under the supervision of the Director of the Department of Public 
Works. The entire expense of replacing and resurfacing the highway at the same level 
and in as good a condition as before, with materials equal in specifications to those 
removed, shall be paid by the person or persons to whom the permit was given or by 
whom the work was done.  
 
 
B. Bond: 
 The Board of Selectmen may require a bond to guarantee the faithful and satisfactory 
performance of the work and payment for any damage to any such way caused by or 
resulting from the operations authorized by such permit. The amount of the bond shall be 
determined by the Selectmen, not to exceed the estimated cost of the work and any 
possible damage. 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:       No Recommendation  
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:    Deferred 
 
ARTICLE 23.  To see if the Town will vote to amend Chapter 140 of the Town’s General By-
laws, entitled “Excavations and Earth Removal,” Sections 140-1, 140-14 and 140-15, by deleting 
the words “Board of Selectmen,” wherever they so appear, and substituting the words “Planning 
Board” therefor; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) 
 
Chapter 140  
Excavations and Earth Removal  
[HISTORY: Adopted by the Town of Lunenburg as indicated in article histories. 
Amendments noted where applicable.]  
GENERAL REFERENCES 
Streets and sidewalks — See Ch. 205. 
Zoning — See Ch. 250. 
Subdivision regulations — See Ch. 325. 
 
Article I  
Earth Removal  
[Adopted 5-12-1990 (Art. IX, § 9, of the Town Bylaws)]  
§ 140-1 Definitions.  
As used in this bylaw, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated: 
BOARD  
The Planning Board of the Town of Lunenburg. 
EARTH  
Includes soil, loam, sand, gravel, and stone. 
===PAGE 22===
22 
 
§ 140-2 Purpose.  
The purpose of this bylaw is to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public by regulating 
the removal of earth so as not to create dust, washouts, noise, ponds, and other hazardous land 
conditions. 
§ 140-3 Enforcement; violations and penalties.  
Any person, firm or corporation willfully violating, disobeying or refusing to comply with any of 
the provisions of this bylaw shall be prosecuted under the terms of MGL c. 40, § 21, para. 17, 
and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50 for the first offense, not more than $100 for 
the second offense, and not more than $200 for any subsequent offense. Each day during any 
portion of which such violation is allowed to continue shall be considered a separate offense. The 
Board may revoke or suspend the permit of any person, firm or corporation holding a permit 
under this bylaw if such person, firm or corporation violates, disobeys, or fails to comply with 
any of its provisions. 
§ 140-4 Existing soil removal operations.  
Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the operation of soil removal on the effective date of 
this bylaw may continue such operation for 30 days after such date, but shall, within said 30 
days, apply for a permit in accordance with this bylaw. At the end of such 30 days, the operation 
shall be governed by the terms of the permit issued or, if no such permit is issued, shall cease. 
§ 140-5 Severability.  
The invalidity of any section of this bylaw shall not invalidate any other section or provision 
thereof. 
§ 140-6 Permit required.  
No earth in an amount in excess of 10 cubic yards shall be moved from any parcel of land within 
the Town of Lunenburg to another parcel either within or without the Town unless such removal 
is authorized by a permit issued by the Board. No earth in an amount in excess of 10 cubic yards 
shall be moved in less than ten-cubic-yard quantities over a period of time, deemed by the Board 
to be for the purpose of evading any of the provisions of this bylaw. No earth removal permit 
shall be issued until an application therefor is filed with the Board and the Board has held a 
public hearing on the application, after publication of the time and place, and subject matter 
sufficient for identification, in a newspaper having general distribution in the Town once in each 
of two successive weeks, the first publication to be not less than 14 days prior to said public 
hearing, and notice of such hearing shall be sent by mail to owners of abutting property prior to 
said public hearing. 
§ 140-7 Application for permit.  
Applications for such permits shall be accompanied by exhibits and documentation deemed 
necessary by the Board for the proper issuance of a permit, which shall include the following: 
A. Name and address of the legal owner of the land in question.  
B. Name and address of petitioner, if different, and names and addresses of owners of abutting 
property.  
C. An adequate and sufficient plan of land prepared by a registered engineer or land surveyor 
and indicating tract boundaries, adjacent streets and roads, the limits of the proposed 
===PAGE 23===
23 
 
excavation, the locations of all structures within 200 feet of said limits, original topography 
of five-foot contours, proposed final contours of five-foot intervals, and the location and 
proposed use of all structures and buildings to be used in connection with the removal 
operation. Any of the above provisions may be waived at discretion of the Board.  
D. Statement of plans for the disposal of rock, tree stumps and other waste material, and for the 
drainage of the site and excavation during and after the removal operation.  
E. Proposed closure plan as provided in § 140-13, unless waived at the discretion of the Board.  
§ 140-8 Denial of permit.  
No permit for earth removal shall be issued if such removal will: 
A. Endanger the general health, safety, or welfare or constitute a public nuisance.  
B. Result in detriment to the normal use of adjacent property by reason of noise, dust, erosion, 
or vibration.  
C. Result in traffic hazard in residential areas, or congestion and physical damage to public 
ways.  
§ 140-9 Duration of permit.  
No permit for any earth removal shall be issued for more than one year's duration, and may be 
renewed thereafter. 
§ 140-10 Control of operation.  
In approving the issuance of a permit, the Board shall impose all reasonable requirements which 
shall be deemed necessary by the Board and may include: grading, seeding, and planting, fencing 
necessary for public safety and screening unsightly operations, methods of removal, location and 
use of structures, hours of operation, routes of transportation of material removed, control of 
drainage, control of dust, disposition of waste material incident to the operation, due 
consideration for the preservation of the Town's natural resources, including inland swamps and 
waters and the aesthetic values, and final appearance of the property on completion of the 
operation. 
§ 140-11 Bond or security.  
The Board may require suitable bond or other security adequate to assure compliance with any of 
the provisions of this bylaw. 
§ 140-12 Exemptions.  
[Amended 1-10-1968]  
This bylaw shall not be construed to apply to any such removal incidental to the construction or 
alteration of any structure for which a building permit has been issued, or to the removal 
incidental to the installation of any cesspool or septic tank for which a permit has been issued by 
the Board of Health, or to the grading or development of any approved subdivision or public 
way. 
§ 140-13 Completion and closure.  
[Amended 5-30-1986]  
===PAGE 24===
24 
 
A. The Board may require a closure plan before issuance of a permit, expiration or termination 
of an existing permit.  
B. The closure plan must be approved and completed to the satisfaction of the Board before 
any: 
(1) Building/Construction.  
(2) Transfer of ownership.  
(3) Termination of bond or security.  
C. The closure plan shall include: 
(1) Proposed final contours.  
(2) Proposed final drainage.  
(3) Proposed final revegetation.  
(4) A drawing, drawn to scale, showing the location of any material (rock, tree stumps or any 
other waste material) buried on the site.  
§ 140-14 Permit fees.  
Fees shall be established from time to time by the Planning Board. Failure to pay the earth 
removal permit renewal fee shall result in the automatic nonrenewal of the earth removal permit. 
Article II  
Excavations  
[Adopted as Art. IX, § 10, of the Town Bylaws]  
§ 140-15 Barriers required.  
Owners of land which has been excavated shall erect barriers or take other suitable measures 
within five days after such owners have been notified in writing by the Planning Board that, in 
their opinion, such excavation constitutes a hazard to the public safety. 
§ 140-16 Violations and penalties.  
The penalty for violation of this bylaw shall be as follows: 
A. For the first offense: $50.  
B. For the second offense: $100.  
C.     For each subsequent offense: $200.  
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:    No Recommendation    
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:  Recommend Approval (4-1) 
 
===PAGE 25===
25 
 
ARTICLE 24.  Requesting the Town of Lunenburg apply to the Commonwealth of Mass. for an 
additional all alcohol off prems. License for Jaxx Country Variety 1353 Massachusetts Ave.  
(Citizens Petition) 
 
FINANCE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION:      Deferred 
BOARD OF SELECTMEN RECOMMENDATION:   Deferred 
 
And you are directed to serve this Warrant by posting attested copies thereof in four or more 
public places in the Town, fourteen (14) days at least before the day appointed for said meeting, one 
of which places shall be the Town Hall, one at Whalom Variety Store in the Whalom-Bakerville 
District, one at Powell’s and one at Jaxx Country Variety, and by mailing a copy to each dwelling 
unit in the Town in which a registered voter resides at least fourteen (14) days prior to such 
meeting.  
 
Hereof, fail not and make due return of this Warrant, with your doings thereon, to the Town Clerk 
at the time and place aforesaid.  
 
Given under our hands this 12th day of May in the year Two Thousand and Twenty, 
 
                  
A true copy, Attest:                                                                               LUNENBURG BOARD OF SELECTMEN  
Kathyrn M. Herrick, Town Clerk 
                                                                                                                 _________________________________ 
                                                Tom Alonzo, Chairman 
 
                                                            _________________________________ 
         Phyllis Luck, Vice Chairman 
     
        _________________________________ 
                                                                                                                   Damon McQuaid, Clerk 
                                   
                                                                                                                   _________________________________  
                                                                                                            Katey Adams, Member  
 
        _________________________________ 
        Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Member 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 26===
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 FY19 FINAL 
BUDGET 
 FY20 FINAL 
BUDGET 
 FY21 
RECOMMENDED 
BUDGET EXPENDITURES 
 FY19 FINAL 
BUDGET 
 FY20 FINAL 
BUDGET 
 FY21 
RECOMMENDED 
BUDGET 
PROPERTY TAXES
Prior Year Levy Limit 23,087,668.00$            24,137,396.00$    25,107,061.90$        Maturing Debt 3,095,185.66$                3,094,944.33$        3,226,042.07$         
2 1/2% Increase  577,192.00$                 603,434.90$         627,676.55$              Interest/Issuance Costs on Debt 1,662,866.84$                1,586,727.26$        1,473,479.37$         
Estimated New Growth 472,536.00$                 366,231.00$         173,400.00$              Gen Gov Unclassified 3,136,215.55$                3,224,861.32$        3,246,916.39$         
Debt Exclusions 2,857,515.00$                 2,947,347.96$         2,852,779.39$             General Government 1,426,619.25$                1,529,022.27$        1,590,980.65$         
Override Central Purchasing 55,303.00$                      60,303.00$             56,280.00$               
Protection 3,237,330.22$                3,462,434.21$        3,535,203.12$         
TAXES: Total 26,994,911.00$           28,054,409.86$   28,760,917.84$        Health & Sanitation 73,838.58$                      77,316.94$             79,055.93$               
Public Assistance 245,493.56$                   249,663.78$           265,587.84$             
Facilities & Buildings 670,851.69$                   708,038.57$           720,578.71$             
Solid Waste/Recycling Progam 156,359.88$                   218,450.00$           218,634.00$             
STATE PROVIDED FUNDS Department of Public Works 1,668,378.37$                1,825,327.81$        1,782,187.86$         
Cherry Sheet/State Aid                                 9,074,334.00$                 9,308,929.00$         9,308,929.00$             Schools 21,031,807.47$              21,591,022.23$      22,029,972.00$       
Police Career Incentive Library 407,653.76$                   416,727.06$           433,197.08$             
Additional Aid -$                                 
Subtotal State Aid 9,074,334.00               9,308,929.00$         9,308,929.00$             Omnibus Total 36,867,903.83$              38,044,838.78$      38,658,115.02$       
-$                                 
Prior Year Budget Adjustments -$                                 
-$                                 
PROJECTED  LOCAL RECEIPTS CHERRY SHEET CHARGES -$                                 
Local Receipts 2,940,817.00$              3,010,153.00$      3,010,153.00$          Cherry Sheet Offset 257,181.00$                   199,182.00$           199,182.00$             
Subtotal Receipts 2,940,817.00               3,010,153.00       3,010,153.00            State & County 175,016.00$                   191,720.00$           191,720.00$             
Choice/Charter Assessments 869,680.00$                   890,787.00$           890,787.00$             
OTHER REVENUES -$                                 
Overlay Surplus -$                                 
Free Cash 602,736.00$                 1,297,731.96$      875,276.21$              Subtotal CS Charges 1,301,877.00$                1,281,689.00$        1,281,689.00$         
Unexpended Articles 54,478.03$                   171,781.68$         -$                                 
Premium Reserved for Capital 6,350.49$             -$                                 
Comcast Tech Capital Fund 120,000.00$         
Borrowing 480,495.00$                 Allow for Abatements/Exemptions 182,363.75$                   175,000.00$           120,000.00$             
Zoning Incentive Stabilization Fund Worc Cty Retirement Assessment 1,221,814.00$                1,354,353.00$        1,502,144.00$         
MSBA Reimbursements 474,239.00$                 474,239.00$         474,239.00$              Tax Title 10,500.00$                      24,000.00$             24,000.00$               
MSBA Reserve for Debt/Premiums 59,959.00$                   61,077.89$           60,812.19$                Capital Articles 1,455,214.00$                1,684,100.00$        664,800.00$             
Design, Construct Sewers -$                                 
Trust & Special Revenue Funds Cemetery Improvements -$                                 35,000.00$             
Sewer Enterprise General Fund Articles -$                                 
Sewer Betterments PEG Access Capital Expenses -$                                 120,000.00$           
Water Betterments (Meadow Woods) 58,468.13$                   56,837.50$           55,837.50$                Reserve Capacity Stabilization Fund
Student Transportation Offset Receipt Fund Special Purpose Stabilization Fund(s) 399,227.00$                   288,222.00$           
Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings 29,656.00$                   28,177.00$           30,656.00$                Sewer Capital Reserve 29,000.00$                      27,521.00$             30,000.00$               
Cemetery Sale of Lots Account 35,000.00$           -$                                 
Artificial Turf Revolving Fund 44,930.56$                   43,500.00$           46,473.00$                -$                                 
Sale of Real Estate Revolving Account TC Passios Design/Eng. -$                                 265,000.00$           
 Subtotal Other Revenue 1,804,961.72$             2,294,695.52$     1,543,293.90$          Court Judgements -$                                 
Snow & Ice Estimate
OPEB Liability 100,000.00$                   150,000.00$           
Sewer OPEB Liability 656.00$                           656.00$                  656.00$                    
Other Financing Sources Sewer Construction Project -$                                 
Sewer Project Transfer to Stabilization Fund -$                                 
Septic Loan Revenue 10,868.00$                   Prior Year Expense -$                                 476.21$                    
Transfer to Stabilization Fund (5% Oper) 87,000.00$                      100,000.00$           210,000.00$             
PEG Access Enterprise Fund 152,000.00$         191,000.00$              PEG Access Enterprise -$                                 152,000.00$           143,000.00$             
Solid Waste Enterprise 292,000.00$                 302,000.00$         302,000.00$              Solid Waste Enterprise 292,000.00$                   302,000.00$           302,000.00$             
Water Enterprise 25,000.00$                   25,000.00$           25,000.00$                Water Enterprise 25,000.00$                      25,000.00$             25,000.00$               
Sewer Enterprise 1,745,540.58$              1,727,385.40$      1,820,203.44$          Sewer Enterprise 862,171.00$                   838,679.00$           943,191.54$             
-$                                 
TOTAL REVENUE $42,888,432.30 $44,874,572.78 $44,961,497.18 TOTAL EXPENDITURES 42,834,726.58$              44,868,058.78$      43,905,071.77$       
Credit/(Debit) 53,705.72$                      $6,514.00 $1,056,425.41
PROJECTED REVENUES/EXPENDITURES FY2021 
===PAGE 27===
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FY 2021 Projected Omnibus Budget
 
Line Expended Expended Expended Expended Budgeted FY21 Town
No. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Manager Rec
Maturing Debt & Interest
1 Principal-Loans 2,870,573.15$      3,097,671.53$      3,102,454.99$      3,095,185.66$      3,094,944.33$      3,226,042.07$      
2 Interest -Loans 1,658,238.83$      1,735,905.23$      1,664,957.76$      1,623,033.12$      1,523,597.55$      1,469,113.25$      
3 Interest-Temporary Loans 5,858.02$             7,729.96$             31,463.74$           33,491.78$           57,794.48$           -$                     
3A Administrative Fees - Loans 7,194.56$             16,856.15$           7,708.67$             6,341.90$             5,335.23$             4,366.12$             
3B Bond Issuance Costs -$                     -$                     9,806.23$             -$                     -$                     -$                     
Total Maturing Debt 4,541,864.56$      4,858,162.87$      4,816,391.39$      4,758,052.46$      4,681,671.59$      4,699,521.44$      
Unclassified   
4 Liability Insurance 185,537.47$         199,800.66$         218,375.00$         174,851.00$         233,226.65$         214,213.60$         
5 Workers Compensation 78,869.65$           109,283.35$         110,585.00$         121,268.00$         126,527.50$         136,359.00$         
6 Group Health Insurance 1,670,769.78$      1,805,968.97$      1,969,483.26$      2,108,353.26$      2,384,177.80$      2,415,326.19$      
7 Group Life Insurance 9,926.25$             10,073.75$           10,671.25$           9,055.00$             15,000.00$           15,000.00$           
8 Physicals 3,757.00$             4,425.00$             6,857.82$             4,084.49$             3,500.00$             3,500.00$             
9 Print Town Reports 10,085.07$           8,575.00$             12,625.48$           9,227.81$             12,000.00$           12,000.00$           
10 Mont Reg Planning Assess 3,197.43$             3,277.37$             3,359.30$             3,443.29$             3,529.37$             3,617.60$             
11 Historical Commission 500.00$                2,500.00$             -$                     1,325.10$             3,000.00$             3,000.00$             
12 Band Concerts 4,200.00$             4,200.00$             4,200.00$             4,200.00$             4,200.00$             4,200.00$             
12A Agricultural Commission -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
13 Reserve Fund             -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     75,000.00$           75,000.00$           
13A Salary Reserve Fund 30,900.83$           12,808.80$           -$                     4,841.36$             94,000.00$           94,000.00$           
14 Unemployment Expense (429.00)$              -$                     (4,004.00)$            4,281.00$             10,000.00$           10,000.00$           
14A Unemployment Expense - Stab Fund -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
15 Medicare - Town's Share      239,302.69$         244,772.53$         260,569.66$         268,127.95$         260,700.00$         260,700.00$         
Total Gen Gov Unclassified 2,236,617.17$      2,405,685.43$      2,592,722.77$      2,713,058.26$      3,224,861.32$      3,246,916.39$      
General Government
16 Finance Committee Expense 403.63$                451.90$                258.35$                306.91$                800.00$                800.00$                
17 Annual Town Audit 35,000.00$           44,750.00$           37,000.00$           40,750.00$           41,750.00$           41,900.00$           
18 Charter Review Committee -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
19 Selectmen's Administration 45,662.48$           49,677.12$           50,971.86$           54,851.68$           118,177.06$         124,738.87$         
20 Selectmen Salaries 500.00$                500.00$                500.00$                -$                     -$                     -$                     
21 Town Manager Salary 130,824.24$         118,230.78$         122,138.89$         127,320.00$         131,118.00$         134,378.00$         
22 Town Manager Expense 5,348.71$             3,489.31$             4,456.02$             4,930.20$             6,000.00$             6,000.00$             
23 Town Accountant 176,042.84$         182,716.09$         196,079.29$         202,770.03$         207,130.67$         215,631.51$         
24 Treasurer's Administration 61,326.48$           66,921.15$           72,028.75$           69,531.91$           80,421.16$           88,679.31$           
25 Banking Charges 20.00$                  40.00$                  30.00$                  -$                     1,000.00$             1,000.00$             
26 Tax Collector's Admin 77,612.31$           74,752.37$           83,917.84$           94,628.49$           96,767.02$           100,911.07$         
27 Assessor's Salaries -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
28 Assessor's Administration 167,355.77$         157,141.83$         175,114.95$         164,085.54$         177,720.90$         181,757.28$         
29 Technology Director 155,242.45$         168,180.82$         188,937.93$         210,763.84$         230,042.60$         232,444.40$         
30 Legal Expenses 219,148.94$         104,791.11$         143,923.96$         109,869.94$         110,000.00$         110,000.00$         
31 Town Clerk Salary 46,579.00$           47,511.00$           48,461.00$           49,430.16$           50,418.00$           51,678.45$           
32 Town Clerk's Administration 31,519.62$           26,239.00$           26,337.65$           28,198.01$           39,083.60$           40,104.02$           
33 Elections 12,439.74$           13,816.90$           10,579.82$           12,336.06$           12,902.00$           26,653.00$           
34 Registration & Census 12,077.30$           14,032.52$           10,957.82$           14,718.78$           13,800.00$           17,850.00$           
35 Planning Board 147,892.58$         141,273.35$         144,499.57$         148,595.23$         151,807.40$         155,065.50$         
36 Zoning Board of Appeals 2,617.64$             3,929.76$             3,609.36$             3,161.44$             3,900.00$             3,900.00$             
37 Conservation Commission 49,110.16$           46,181.52$           49,453.46$           51,130.55$           56,183.86$           57,489.24$           
Total General Government 1,376,723.89$      1,264,626.53$      1,369,256.52$      1,387,378.77$      1,529,022.27$      1,590,980.65$      
===PAGE 28===
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FY 2021 Projected Omnibus Budget
 
Line Expended Expended Expended Expended Budgeted FY21 Town
No. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Manager Rec
Central Purchasing
38 Central Purchasing 45,307.77$           42,853.31$           41,485.07$           53,553.58$           60,303.00$           56,280.00$           
Total Central Purchasing 45,307.77$           42,853.31$           41,485.07$           53,553.58$           60,303.00$           56,280.00$           
Protection
39 Police Department 1,363,555.82$      1,417,828.67$      1,517,016.74$      1,639,906.20$      1,750,774.44$      1,807,654.69$      
40 Police Lock Up 64,306.53$           60,586.11$           42,315.74$           38,947.49$           80,060.00$           65,600.00$           
41 Injury Leave 3,429.49$             325.83$                65.15$                  2,131.96$             4,000.00$             4,000.00$             
42 Police/Fire Medical Expenses 1,109.80$             -$                     2,082.00$             1,138.99$             4,000.00$             4,000.00$             
Subtotal Police 1,432,401.64$      1,478,740.61$      1,561,479.63$      1,682,124.64$      1,838,834.44$      1,881,254.69$      
43 Fire Department 696,901.89$         724,306.93$         846,273.16$         976,325.57$         1,093,374.24$      1,104,714.36$      
43A Capital - Fire Dept. 21,289.94$           19,151.16$           13,782.56$           19,121.94$           20,000.00$           20,000.00$           
44 Fire Hydrant Expense 14,952.58$           14,979.00$           15,060.00$           15,116.00$           15,060.00$           15,116.00$           
45 Radio Equipment Mtc. 4,680.91$             9,784.32$             7,911.55$             6,210.55$             10,000.00$           10,000.00$           
Subtotal Fire Dept. 737,825.32$         768,221.41$         883,027.27$         1,016,774.06$      1,138,434.24$      1,149,830.36$      
46 Radio Watch 282,115.24$         257,231.11$         251,738.67$         267,269.06$         293,107.27$         302,560.87$         
Subtotal Radio Watch 282,115.24$         257,231.11$         251,738.67$         267,269.06$         293,107.27$         302,560.87$         
47 Emergency Management 4,500.00$             5,495.00$             4,500.00$             5,000.00$             7,000.00$             7,000.00$             
48 Sealer of Weights & Measures 4,315.00$             4,145.00$             4,145.00$             4,125.00$             4,300.00$             4,300.00$             
49 Wiring Inspector 26,563.36$           33,803.54$           -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
50 Building Inspector 143,366.55$         121,748.43$         119,293.20$         88,663.50$           140,758.26$         150,257.20$         
51 Municipal Hearing Officer -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
52 Plumbing/Gas Inspector 17,317.40$           18,383.20$           -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
53 Animal Control 25,299.57$           51,488.68$           40,000.00$           39,919.00$           40,000.00$           40,000.00$           
Subtotal Other Protection 221,361.88$         235,063.85$         167,938.20$         137,707.50$         192,058.26$         201,557.20$         
Total Protection 2,673,704.08$      2,739,256.98$      2,864,183.77$      3,103,875.26$      3,462,434.21$      3,535,203.12$      
Health & Sanitation
54 General Health Expense 38,031.64$           32,677.45$           32,947.16$           34,345.96$           36,645.20$           36,400.60$           
55 Nashoba Board of Health 22,846.00$           23,531.40$           24,707.95$           25,943.35$           27,240.51$           28,602.54$           
56 Nashoba Nursing 10,227.20$           10,738.56$           11,275.49$           11,839.27$           12,431.23$           13,052.79$           
57 Mental Health -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
58 Animal Inspector Salary 1,000.00$             1,000.00$             1,000.00$             1,000.00$             1,000.00$             1,000.00$             
Total Health & Sanitation 72,104.84$           67,947.41$           69,930.60$           73,128.58$           77,316.94$           79,055.93$           
===PAGE 29===
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FY 2021 Projected Omnibus Budget
 
Line Expended Expended Expended Expended Budgeted FY21 Town
No. FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Manager Rec
Department of Public Works
59 Highway Labor 394,120.68$         445,651.20$         428,733.31$         418,734.44$         533,128.70$         499,996.13$         
60 Highway OT 9,101.14$             9,605.82$             8,800.48$             11,269.66$           6,790.71$             6,790.71$             
61 General Highway Maintenance 474,239.27$         635,163.55$         522,654.32$         565,902.36$         622,500.00$         597,500.00$         
61A Capital - General Highway -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
62 Town Highway Garage 1,503.62$             1,048.66$             1,037.97$             988.16$                1,040.00$             1,040.00$             
63 Traffic Signs & Devices 22,856.47$           4,710.16$             27,539.43$           12,311.50$           28,253.00$           28,253.00$           
64 Vehicle Mtc. - Highway 51,331.85$           70,312.26$           53,040.75$           57,269.59$           73,480.00$           73,480.00$           
65 Vehicle Mtc - Police 45,907.41$           43,230.87$           77,380.52$           63,787.09$           67,000.00$           67,000.00$           
66 Vehicle Mtc. - Fire 31,376.66$           33,436.24$           48,218.86$           46,181.62$           42,000.00$           42,000.00$           
67 Park Department 67,363.67$           38,130.45$           53,007.49$           71,756.21$           92,898.00$           95,689.56$           
68 Cemetery Department 50,056.98$           49,015.40$           51,901.52$           52,458.49$           57,772.36$           69,973.42$           
69 Tree Removal 28,458.60$           17,129.31$           24,963.11$           31,825.71$           24,745.04$           24,745.04$           
70 Snow Removal Expense 275,776.53$         451,124.05$         406,782.75$         340,374.49$         275,720.00$         275,720.00$         
Total DPW 1,452,092.88$      1,798,557.97$      1,704,060.51$      1,672,859.32$      1,825,327.81$      1,782,187.86$      
Facilities and Buildings
71 Facilities and Grounds 361,648.05$         395,402.77$         502,714.54$         344,486.32$         464,485.47$         485,025.61$         
72 Public Buildings 235,287.02$         236,537.30$         227,716.32$         204,073.23$         243,553.10$         235,553.10$         
72A Additional Utilities, Library -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
Total Facilities & Buildings 596,935.07$         631,940.07$         730,430.86$         548,559.55$         708,038.57$         720,578.71$         
Solid Waste/Recycling Program
73 Recycling Program 147,420.12$         146,740.14$         148,464.31$         153,172.68$         218,450.00$         218,634.00$         
Total Solid Waste/Recycling 147,420.12$         146,740.14$         148,464.31$         153,172.68$         218,450.00$         218,634.00$         
Public Assistance
74 Council on Aging 93,572.25$           111,559.35$         132,139.19$         137,639.51$         143,888.78$         159,812.84$         
Subtotal C.O.A. 93,572.25$           111,559.35$         132,139.19$         137,639.51$         143,888.78$         159,812.84$         
75 Veterans’ Benefits 85,368.80$           55,856.84$           47,176.74$           56,227.51$           99,275.00$           99,275.00$           
76 Veteran's Administration 5,000.00$             5,000.00$             5,035.00$             5,035.00$             5,250.00$             5,250.00$             
77 Registrar of Vets' Graves 297.12$                71.94$                  -$                     544.00$                500.00$                500.00$                
78 Memorial Day 70.00$                  115.97$                131.98$                70.00$                  750.00$                750.00$                
Subtotal Veterans 90,735.92$           61,044.75$           52,343.72$           61,876.51$           105,775.00$         105,775.00$         
Total Assistance 184,308.17$         172,604.10$         184,482.91$         199,516.02$         249,663.78$         265,587.84$         
Schools    
79 School Department 17,398,924.00$    18,214,769.00$     19,552,888.95$     20,171,457.32$     20,795,863.23$     21,123,602.00$     
79A Unemployment School - Stab/Free Cash -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
79B Curriculum Update 116,000.00$         116,463.41$         119,257.00$         17,686.00$           17,686.00$           17,686.00$           
80 Monty Tech Assessment 799,478.00$         890,058.00$         876,380.73$         820,560.00$         783,987.00$         888,684.00$         
81 Vehicle Mtc - School -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     -$                     
Total Schools 18,314,402.00$    19,221,290.41$     20,548,526.68$     21,009,703.32$     21,597,536.23$     22,029,972.00$     
 Library
82 Lunenburg Public Library 383,408.31$         363,937.86$         386,594.35$         406,171.26$         416,727.06$         433,197.08$         
Total Library 383,408.31$         363,937.86$         386,594.35$         406,171.26$         416,727.06$         433,197.08$         
Total Omnibus  32,024,888.86$    33,713,603.08$     35,456,529.74$     36,079,029.06$     38,051,352.78$     38,658,115.02$     
===PAGE 30===
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG                 PRSRT STD                                                                                                                         
P. O. BOX 135                                                                                               U.S. POSTAGE PAID                                                          
LUNENBURG, MA 01462-0135                                                                  ECRWSS                                                                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                         LUNENBURG, MA                                                        
                                                                                                                         PERMIT NO. 8                                                         
 
                  
 
 
                                                                      
 
RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER 
 
LUNENBURG, MA 01462 
 
 
 
 
TOWN OF LUNENBURG ANNUAL TOWN MEETING  
SATURDAY, JUNE 13, 2020; 9:00 A.M.   
LUNENBURG MIDDLE/HIGH SCHOOL AUDITORIUM 
1079 Massachusetts Avenue 
 
 