===PAGE 92===
Nashoba Associated Boards of Health continues to serve the local Board of Health in meeting the
challenges of environmental and public health needs in Lunenburg. In addition to the day to day public
health work conducted for Lunenburg we also provide the following services:
• Maintaining Nashoba's internet website to provide information for the public. (See nashoba.org)
• Nashoba assisted with providing a flu clinic at the Library to practice emergency preparedness plans.
• Response to state mandated changes in regulations requiring more frequent beach sampling through
sample collection, submittal for analysis, and follow-up when results were obtained.
We look forward to continuing our work with Lunenburg's Board of Health. Included in the day-to-day
work of Nashoba in 2019 were the following:
• Through membership in the Association, Lunenburg benefited from the services of Nashoba staff
including: Registered Sanitarians, Certified Health Officers, Registered Nurses, Nutritionists,
Registered Physical & Occupational Therapists, Licensed Social Workers, Certified Home Health
Aides, and Registered Dental Hygienists
• Provided health education programs in collaboration with the Lunenburg Council on Aging.
• Collaborated with Montachusett Home Care around elders at risk and other safety issues.
• Reviewed 107 Title 5 state mandated private Septic System Inspections for Lunenburg Board of
Health. Received, reviewed, and filed these state mandated (but unfunded) Title 5 inspections.
Corresponded with inspectors regarding deficiencies; referred deficient inspections to Lunenburg
Board of Health for enforcement action
By the Lunenburg Board of Health's continued participation in the Association you can shape your
future local public health programs and share in the benefits of quality service at a reasonable cost!
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Environmental Health Department
Environmental Information Responses
Lunenburg Office (days)...
..80
The Nashoba sanitarian is generally scheduled to be available
for the public twice a week on Monday and Wednesday mornings at the
Lunenburg Board of Health Office. Other meetings occur informally.
This does not reflect the daily calls handled by the three Nashoba secretaries
during daily business hours.
90
===PAGE 93===
investigated, and where appropriate medical consultation and laboratory testing may
be required.
Beach/Pool/Camp Inspections..
... 20
Camps are inspected at least annually at opening for compliance with State
Sanitary Code, Chapter IV, 10SCMR430.00. Public swimming beaches are sampled
for water quality weekly during the summer operation and more often if a problem is
suspected. Semi-public pool are permitted and inspected
Housing & Nuisance Investigations..
.11
Nashoba, as agent for the local Board of Health, inspects dwellings for
conformance with State Sanitary Code, 105 CMR 410.00, issues orders for correction,
and re-inspect for compliance. Similarly, complaints from residents concerning
unsanitary conditions or pollution events are investigated.
Septic System Test Applications.
49
Applications from residents proposing to build or upgrade a septic system are
accepted, a file created, and testing dates are coordinated with the applicants engineer.
Septic System Lot Tests.
..125
Nashoba sanitarian witnesses soil evaluations, deep hole tests, and,
usually on a separate date, percolation tests conducted by the applicant's
engineer which serve as the basis of the design of the septic system.
Septic System Plan Applications.
38
Detailed plans created by engineers hired by residents proposing to build or
upgrade a septic system are received, filed, and routed to the Nashoba sanitarian for
Septic System Plan Reviews
.38
Engineered plans are reviewed according to state code, Title 5, and local Board
of Health regulations and review forms are created and sent to engineer tor
revision. Subsequent re-submittals by the engineer are also reviewed
Septic System Permit Applications (new lots)...
...24
Septic System Permit Applications (upgrade.......... 20
Applicants' approved plan submittals and Board of Health requirements are
incorporated into a permit to construct the septic system.
Septic System Construction Inspections.....
..14
Nashoba Sanitarian is called to construction site at various phases of
construction to witness & verify that system is built according to plans.
91
===PAGE 94===
l was dr legal solely by local board of health regulatons,
Ine
Nashoba Sanitarian assist the Board of Health by reviewing well plans, securing well
water samples, and interpreting water quality test results.
Nashoba Nursing Service & Hospice
Home Health
Nursing Visits
...911
Nashoba's Certified Home Health Registered Nurses visits provide skilled
services to patients in their home under physician's orders. These services include
assessment of physical, psychological, and nutritional needs. Skills include teaching/
supervision of medications, wound care, ostomy care, IV therapy on a 24 hour basis,
catheter care, case management and referral to other services as needed.
Home Health Aide Visits ..
...89
Nashoba's Certified Home Care Aides provide assistance with daily activities
of daily living including bathing dressing, exercises and meal preparation.
Rehabilitative Therapy Visit..
663
Nashoba Therapists provide skilled physical, occupational, speech, and dietary
therapeutic interventions through assessment, treatment and education.
integration of client, caregiver, and medical outcomes aims at attaining maximum
functional dependence.
Medical Social Service Visits ..
.....3
Nashoba Social Workers provide short-term assistance to patients at
home for counseling and referral to community resources.
Hospice Volunteer and Spiritual Care Visits......17
Nashoba's Volunteers and Clergy provide patients with emotional
and spiritual support, companionship and guidance.
Community Health Nursing
Nashoba's Community Health Nursing program provides an essential public health
service to it member communities guided by the American Nurses Association (ANA)
16 Standards of Public Nursing Practice.
ur staff serves as a resource to the community, addressing questions and concerns
from the public on a variety of health and safety issues (immunizations, head lice,
chronic disease management, safe drug/sharps disposal etc.) in a variety of ways.
92
===PAGE 95===
• We provide public health education.
• We address psych-social issues that may impact general health and safety (i.e. hoarding).
We are available to collaborate with all municipal staff to address public health nursing questions,
work closely with Councils on Aging to assist elders in the communities and are available for
consultation with school nurses caring for children and families. The nursing staff also works with the
Sanitarian for your community, as needed, to address issues of unhealthy living conditions.
Listed below is summary of the activities of the Community Health Nursing program.
Nashoba conducted ten clinics and those clinics offered your citizens: blood pressure screening, flu
shots and an opportunity to consult with the nurse to address questions.
Our staff conducted five health promotion/well-being/social worker visits in your communities; there
were 84 direct observation therapy visits (monitoring a patient with TB) provided in addition to the
health promotional visits.
We administered 71 flu shots through our annual clinics.
Nashoba reviewed, investigated and reported on the following cases of communicable diseases from
r community. Fom tie real pean and investigating work is not always visibl it is vital to
protect the public from the spread of disease.
Investigated
.. 97
Confirmed.
. 57
1
1
48
Communicable Disease Number of Cases
Anaplasmosis
2
Campylobacteriosis 2
Hepatitis C 3
Arborvirus
Cyclosporiasis
Influenza
Dental Health Department
Examination, Cleaning & Fluoride - Grades K, 2 & 4
Nashoba's Registered Dental Hygienists operating out of the school nurse's office and records, provide
these services to those children whose parents have given written consent.
Students Eligibl.......
.. 380
Students Participating.
..162
Referred to Dentist...
......7
Instruction - Grades K, 1 & 5
Nashoba's Registered Dental Hygienists also provide classroom instruction of cleaning and
maintaining health teeth to all children in these grades.
Number of Programs.........•
...11
93
===PAGE 96===
FIRE DEPARTMENT
The Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians of the Lunenburg Fire Department are
dedicated to providing the highest quality, most cost effective fire and emergency medical services to
the citizens of the town of Lunenburg.
In 2019 your Fire Department responded to 1885 calls for service, broken down as follows:
Fires & Hazardous Conditions
420
Emergency Medical
949
Inspections
554
Other
26
Current Fire Department staffing is now 7 Career and 40-45 On Call Firefighters and
Emergency Medical Technicians, plus 1 full-time Administrative Assistant/EMS Coordinator. The
station is manned 7 days per week with 2 Firefighter/Emergency Medical Technicians, plus a 3rd
Firefighter/EMT Monday-Friday from 8 am-4 pm.
This coverage is a combination of full-time
personnel in conjunction with 88 hours per week of per diem coverage. The per diem coverage is
provided by our Call Firefighter/EMTs staffing the station at their hourly rate. Staffing the station with
dual trained Fire/EMS personnel ensures that we are ready to respond to whatever emergency occurs.
Though we have achieved 24 hour coverage in the station, many EMS calls and nearly all fire
calls still require more personnel than are on duty in the station. This means we still rely heavily on
the dedication and commitment of our Call Firefighters and Emergency Medical Technicians. Our call
personnel remain and will remain for the foreseeable future, a vital part of our emergency response. A
new Call Firefighter/EMT must attend over 340 hours of initial training plus additional time in
orientation and field training. Members qualifying to drive fire apparatus must complete an additional
65 hours of classroom and practical training. On average, it takes a new member one and a half to two
years to fully complete this training.
The department continues to move towards the goal of providing our own Paramedic Level
Ambulance Service. Though we currently operate two ambulances at the Advanced EMT Level, we
must still rely on outside agencies to provide paramedic level care when needed. Firefighter Timothy
Downey completed his paramedic training at the end of 2019 and is currently going through the state
testing process. Firefighter Austin Flagg also began the training in September and will be completing
it at the end of 2020. These two members, plus addition of three more firefighter/paramedics over the
next 2-3 years will allow us to provide our own paramedic level care to the community.
In 2019, the Fire Prevention Division conducted 554 Inspections.
This is in addition to
By law we are required to inspect smoke and
oll burner and propane gas installations. Any business holding a liquor license is also required to be
inspected for fire safety issues. In addition, all new construction projects must have their plans
reviewed for proper fire protection, as well as ongoing inspections during the construction process.
94
===PAGE 97===
Trailer.
• Educational programs in conjunction with the Council on Aging. These included cooking and
heating safety, a CPR Demonstration and Ice safety.
• Training to certify personnel as Public Life Safety Educators. In 2019, Firefighter Austin Flagg
joined Captain James Ricci and Lt. Christos Lekaditis as the Department's Life Safety Educators.
→ Participation in the Senior Center's "Sand for Seniors" Program. This program provides buckets of
walkway sand for senior citizens who were unable to obtain it for themselves in the winter months.
In partnership with this program, Captain James Ricci delivers the sand to the residents and when
lacking detectors, Capt. Rice is able to install fire detectors obtained through the Senior SAFE
Grant.
→ It should be noted that each year, 50% of fatal fires are found to have nonfunctional or nonexistent
smoke detectors.
During 2019, Call Firefighters Andrew Bolton and Olivia Hayes graduated from the
Massachusetts Firefighting Academy's Call/Volunteer Training Program.
This intensive 4-month
program provides the basic skills firefighters need to operate in today's challenging environments. All
newly hired Firefighters are required to complete this program within one year of hire.
Seven firefighters from Lunenburg continue to be members of the Fire District 8 Technical
Rescue and Dive Teams. These regional teams respond to high risk and unusual rescue situations, such
as Confined Space,
Rescue from Heights, Building and Trench Collapse, Swift/Floodwater
Underwater Search and Recovery. In conjunction with these Teams, Lunenburg operates both a Water
Rescue Unit and a Collapse/Trench Rescue Trailer.
Apparatus replacement continues to move forward. The new Rescue 2, a 2019 Ford F550/
Horton Ambulance was received in late 2019 and is now in service as our primary ambulance. Rescue
1 has been rotated to Backup/2nd Ambulance. The replacement for our 31-year-old ladder truck
experienced a delay in construction and is now due to arrive in April of 2020. This unit is expected to
serve the town for 25+ years. The replacement for Engine 4 has been ordered and is due to arrive in the
summer of 2020. This unit is expected to serve the town for 20+ years. The next anticipated major
apparatus purchases are not until 2026 (Rescue 1) and 2028 (Squad 3)
In conclusion, I would like to thank the members of the Lunenburg Fire Department for their
outstanding commitment to the Town. Their enthusiasm, professionalism and dedication continue to
impress me every day. I would also like to thank the other department heads, boards and commissions
for their continuing help. Most people do not realize the level of interdepartmental cooperation that
occurs in the daily course of town business. My thanks also go out to the citizens of Lunenburg for
their ongoing support of public safety. It is that support that allows us to continue providing the high
level of service you have come to expect from us.
Patrick A. Sullivan, Fire Chief
655 Massachusetts Ave. Lunenburg, MA 01462
978-582-4155 Fax 978-582-4133
95
===PAGE 98===
A Shift
Kenneth Jones, Captain/AEMT*
Scott Dillon, Lieutenant/EMT
Career Firefighters+
B Shift
James Ricci, Captain/EMT
Austin Flagg, FF/EMT
Call Firefighters
C Shift
Christos Lekaditis,
Lieutenant/AEMT
Timothy Downey, FF/EMT
Mark Bursch, Lieutenant/EMT
Michael Byrne, Lieutentant/AEMT
Andrew C. Burr, Chaplain
Joseph Arsenault, FF/AEMT
David Augusta, EMT
Robert Barrett, FF/EMT*
Matthew Benoit, FF/AEMT
Andrew Bolton, FF/EMT
Benjamin Boudreau, PF/EMT*
Jason Boyle, FF/EMT
Melissa Buchanan, FF/EMT
Frank Byrne, FF/Paramedic
Joseph Cardone, EMT
Charles Colburn, FF/AEMT*
Gregory Dik, FF/EMT*
Paul A. Duquette, FF/EMT*
Carl Gamberdella, FF/EMT
Olivia Hayes, FF/EMT
+ Indicates Full Time Staff
*Indicates member of District
Technical Rescue Team
Patrick Hakey, Lieutneant/EMT
J.Gregory Massak.
Lieutenant/EMT
Karen Weller, Administrative
Asst/EMS Coordinator+
Ronald Hyatt, FF/EMT
Skyler Kozloski, FF/EMT
Taylor Jones, EMT
Lorenzo Leonardo, FF/EMT
Warren Mayhew, FF/Paramedic
Matthew McAulifle, Firefighter
Jordan Melendy, EMT
Stephen Morse, FF/EMT
Tyler Pelkey, FF/Paramedic
Ian Reynolds, FF/EMT
Charles Sampson, EMT
Michael Virostko, FF/EMT
Stephen Wright, FF/EMT
96
===PAGE 99===
LUNENBURG POLICE DEPARTMENT
655 Massachusetts Avenue Lunenburg, MA 01462
978-582-4150 Fax 978-582-4159
2019 ANNUAL TOWN REPORT
LUNENBURG
SETTLED TRIB
POLICE
NCORPORATED
PATROLMAN Y
→ MASS.
• POLICE 219
Chief James P. Marino
97
===PAGE 100===
Sergeant Sean Connery
Sergeant Josh Tocci
Sergeant Sean Zrate
Detectives
Detective Sergeant Jeffrey Thibodeau
Detective (Vacancy)
Community Outreach/School Resource Officer
Officer Brad McNamara
Traffic/ K-9
Sgt. Joshua Tocci
K-9 Jerry
Patrol Officers
Officer Joshua Mathieu, Officer Jonathan Broc,
Officer Brad McNamara, Officer Kayla Leger, Officer John Morreale, Officer Jacob Lachance, Officer
John Wagner, Officer Gage Russell, Officer Kam Munroe, Officer Ramon Cabrera, Officer Anthony
Cappucci.
Student Officers (Full time Academy)
Officer Kamerin Monroe, Officer Ramon Cabrera, Officer Anthony Cappucci
Desk
Officer Lisa Melnicki
Reserve Intermittent Officers
Officer Donald Letarte, Officer Robert Dacosta, Officer Bob Diconza Officer Ben Campbell, Officer Lis
Melnicki, Officer Chad Stateler, Officer Jonathan May, Officer Erin Considine, Officer Amanda voore
Officer Brian Watson
Animal Control
Kathleen Comeau
Newly Appointed
Full Time: Officer Kam Munroe, Officer Ramon Cabrera, Officer Anthony Cappucci
Reserve Intermittent: Officer Bob Diconza (Full Time Retired) Officer Amanda Moore,
Officer Brian Watson
98
===PAGE 101===
was reinstated when he returned to Massachusetts in 2002 and in 2004 Bob was appointed as a full
time officer. During his time as a full time officer Bob was involved in many aspects of policing
serving for many years as the Trattic Enforcement officer. Bob retired from full time policing in
2019, but elected to stay on as a Reserve Officer to help with the staffing shortage. We have been
extremely honored to work with Bob and grateful that he has elected to stay with us on a part time
basis.
Reserve Officer Stan Barney (Lieutenant Retired)
Stan Barney began his distinguished career in Law Enforcement as a Reserve officer with the
Lunenburg Police Department in 1975. In 1977 Stan was appointed as a full time officer and attended
the Massachusetts State Police Academy. In 1983 Stan left to take a job with the Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, (MSPCA), as an enforcement officer. During that
time Stan stayed on as a Reserve officer and returned as a full time officer in 1996. He was later
promoted to Sergeant and then Acting Lieutenant. Stan retired in 2013 but also elected to stay on as a
Reserve officer to help with the staffing shortage. In 2019 Stan decided to retire completely giving up
his commission as a Reserve officer. We were grateful that Stan stayed with us as long as he did and
we have always been extremely honored to serve with Stan. We thank Lieutenant Stan Barney for all
his years of exceptional service and wish him the best of luck and the most enjoyment with his
retirement.
About the Police Department
The Police Department is in operation 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The department is staffed with
the Chief of Police supported by the Public Safety Coordinator, and one Administrative Lieutenant.
Three Sergeants/Shift commanders, one of the sergeants presently assigned to K-9/Traffic
enforcement, eight Patrol Officers, three Student Officers, and eight Reserve Intermittent Patrol
Officers make up the patrol unit. Supporting the patrol unit is the Criminal Investigation Unit headed
by a Detective Sergeant. Within the C.I.U. is the School Resource Officer who is also assigned to
Community Outreach and who is accompanied by Hank the therapy dog. The Lieutenant and Public
Safety Coordinator are on duty Monday through Friday between the hours of 7AM and 3PM. Office
hours for the Chief of Police are 8AM to 4PM Monday through Friday.
The Animal Control Officer responds to domestic animal calls on a 24 hour, 7 day per week basis.
This year 356 Animal calls were logged. The public is reminded to report any animal related
complaints to the Regional Call Center at (978) 582-4531. For emergencies, dial 911. More
information can be found on the Animal Control Web site at lunenburgma.gov.
Dogs must be licensed by April 1 annually. Dogs must have a current Rabies certificate to qualify
for licensing. This can be done at the Clerk's office in Town Hall, 17 Main Street Lunenburg, MA
01462. Unspayed Female/Unaltered Male $20 fee. Spayed Female/Altered Male $5 fee. Late Fee:
$25
The front desk is open Monday thru Friday from 7AM to 7PM. Emergency, Non-emergency and
911 calls are routed through Nashoba Valley Regional Dispatch District, (NVRDD).
For all emergencies, dial 911. For general calls, please call (978) 582-4531.
Applications for Firearms Licensing can be found on the Police Department Website at
lunenburgma.gov. Contact (978) 582-4531 for an appointment.
99
===PAGE 102===
billins.
district for emotional support and many other initiatives such as,
"read with a dog." Hank was also
deployed to a number of funerals for emotional support as well, and to the Domestic Violence Round
table, Cub Scout visits and the Senior Center just to name a few. In 2019, staff assignments had to be
increased 197 times to effectively meet service demands.
The day shift desk officer answered 3056 calls and took 4666 lobby inquiries and complaints in 2019.
The day shift desk officer wrote 82 incident reports in 2019. This year the day shift desk watch officer
was responsible for conducting suicide watch and assisting with the court processing of 83 detainees;
either taken into custody overnight or during the day shift. The day shift desk officer processed 322
Firearms Licenses, a 109% increase over the previous year, 12 Non FID related fingerprints, and
registered 15 sex offenders. The 3 pm to 7 pm desk watch officers assisted in the processing of 55
detainees while providing suicide watch and numerous other services including providing support for the
patrol staff.
Calls for service which will continue to rise, are affected by not only growth in our community, but the
surrounding communities as well. Traffic too will continually increase and will have a direct effect on
the amount of traffic accidents the police will have to investigate. Environmental factors also play a role
in the motor vehicle accident picture. Incidents and arrests amounts are affected by social and economic
1 again emphasize the important of keeping with current growth trends. Growth invariably plays a major
role in police calls for service, arrests, incidents and motor vehicle accidents. The demands for police
services will continue to rise and the police department will have to grow in kind.
Calls for service have increased by 12.5% over last year. Incidents have increased by 16.7%. Incidents
are cases that do not necessarily result in an Arrest, but require a report and investigation. Arrests are
up by 33.7%, with motor vehicle accidents decreasing by 12.4%.
Group A crimes against Persons has declined by 17% this year. These crimes include; Rape,
Statutory Rape, Aggravated Assault, Simple Assault, Intimidation, Kidnapping/Abduction.
Group A crimes against Property has also fallen by 17% this year. Crime against Property
include; Burglary/Breaking & Entering, Larceny, Shoplifting, motor vehicle theft, Forgery, Fraud, stolen
property, destruction of property, vandalism.
Group A crimes against Society have increased by 14%. Crimes against Society include; Drug
crimes, Pornography/Obscene Material, Weapons law violations.
Group B crimes have increased by 22% this year. Group B crimes include; Bad checks,
Disorderly conduct, Driving under the influence, Drunkenness, Family nonviolent offenses, Liquor Law
Violations, Trespassing, and all other offenses.
Lunenburg is a safe community to live in thanks in large part to citizen input. Reporting crime as soon as
it's discovered is key to the safety of a Town such as ours. The Police cannot provide effective
protection without the citizen involvement. I encourage every citizen to report crime as it occurs,
without hesitation, as a timely response is vital to the successfully outcome of any police investigation.
"See something, say something."
100
===PAGE 103===
Chief James P. Marino
101
===PAGE 104===

===PAGE 105===
PLANNING
103
===PAGE 106===

===PAGE 107===
included in the FY2020 Capital Plan.
Priority #
CIP#
1 FD18-01
2 PD17-01-A
3 PD17-01-B
4 FD16-15
5 LPS19-01
6 GG19-01
7 LPS16-19-B
8 FM17-10B
9 PD18-02
10GG19-02
11 FD17-02
12FM16-15
13F19-01
14 FM16-01
Dept.
Fire
Police
Police
Fire
Schools
Town Clerk
Schools
DPW
Police
Planning
Fire
DPW
DPW
DPW
Project Name
Vital Sign Airway Monitors
Police Vehicle, 1 marked
Police Vehicle, 1 unmarked replacement
Engine 4 Replacement 1995)
PRITHES Wifi Upgrade
Voting Machines
THMS, Asbestos Abalement/ Ceiling Replacement
Fuel Tanks at DPW
Patrol Rifles and Shotguns
Rescue 2, Replacement 19R2 (2008)
Teen Center, Paint Exterio
arks- Wallis Park Bball Court and Fence
PSB, Bidg Automation System
Total Capital Plan
Category
Equipment
Vehicle
Vehicle
Vehicle
-quipmen
Facilities
Capital Planning Committee
Damon McQuaid, BOS Representative, Chairman
Heather Sroka, School Committee Representative, Vice-Chair
Caroline Griffis, Member at Large, Clerk
John Henshaw, Finance Committee Representative
Matthew Allison, Planning Board Representative
105
FY 2020
Projected
15,000.00
68,000.00
48,000.00
685,000.00
19,600.00
26,500.00
162,000.00
220,000.00
16,000.00
50,000.00
310,000.00
12,000.00
36,000.00
16,000.00
1,684,100.00
===PAGE 108===
70 units of rental senior housing.
Approval was given for nine subdivisions off Howard Street entitled
Aro Estates. There will be a total of 122 houses built with construction being phased over a reasonable
period of time to avoid overburdening the Town facilities and services all at once. As part of the
approval the developer has agreed to donate approximately 40 acres of land to the Town for
conservation purposes. Included as part of this donation will be a roadway extension within the
subdivision(s) to provide public access to the boundary of the Town Forest.
Construction continues on Massachusetts Avenue for an office and garage for the Lunenburg Water
The Board also approved the construction and operation of a retail motor fuel outlet and
convenience store with a drive-thru at 400 Electric Avenue.
Various businesses asked for, and were approved for waiver requests from the site plan/special permit
approval process. One of those businesses was Dick's Market Garden which received approval for
construction of a new barn at 554 Lancaster Avenue for indoor washing and prepping vegetables for
storage. This process had previously taken place outdoors.
Through MRPC's District Local Technical Assistance Program a Residential & Commercial Permitting
Guidebook was finalized. This Guidebook will facilitate permitting by providing easy-to-follow
procedures that outline the permit review process for homeowners, property and business owners,
developers, brokers and contractors.
Under the Town's Capital Plan, the Town voted to approve $50,000 for FY 2020 for the Board to begin
updating the 2002 Master Plan. The Master Plan is a policy document which outlines the community's
vision for the future.
In spring the Board identified economic development as an important topic to be addressed in the near
future. To address this, the Planning Board began working to create an Economic Development
Committee (EDC). This group would be composed of a combination of Town Officials, residents and
business owners charged with providing advice, and guidance on the state of the business community
in Lunenburg and ways that Town Government can support and sustain the local economy.
At May 2019 Annual Town Meeting a Zoning Bylaw to regulate Recreational Adult Use Marijuana
was passed. This Bylaw allows for no more than two (2) retail locations in the Town of Lunenburg.
Retail locations are permitted in the Commercial and Office Park/Industrial Zoning Districts, as long as
they are 250 feet away from Residential Zoning Districts and/or residential uses. The remaining types
of Marijuana Establishments are permitted ONLY in the Office Park/Industrial District and must be
located 500 feet from Residential Zoning Districts and/or residential uses.
David Prokowiew stepped down from the Board; Kenneth Chenis finished out his term. Rhonda Lisio
and Paula Bertram joined the Board.
The Planning Office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building, 960 Massachusetts Avenue and can be
reached at 978-582-4147 ext. 5. Various forms are available online at https://lunenburgma.gov/on the
Planning Board's homepage. The Zoning Map, Code of the Town of Lunenburg, MA (which contains
he protective zoning; Bylaws), Kules and Regulations Governing the Subdivision of Land, Rules &
regulations for site Plan Approval & Special Permits, and Permitting Guidebook are available online
The Board continues to work on updating the Zoning portion of the Code.
Matthew Allison, Chair Gregory Bittner, Clerk
Rhonda Lisio, Member
Tanner Cole, Vice Chair Paula Bertram, Member
Adam R. Burney, Land Use Director
106
===PAGE 109===
Plan received conditional approval by the State in June of 2019, and the committee tocused Its
energies on completing the required edits to finalize the Plan. The final revised Plan will be
submitted to DCS for review and, once approved, will make the town eligible for DCS-administered
grant programs through 2026.
Working with a diverse group of other boards, the Open Space Committee participated in the Land
Acquisition Committee that reviewed, negotiated, and ultimately brought the Saliba property
acquisition before Special Town Meeting in November of 2019. The acquisition, which will add
approximately 318 acres of land for town conservation and recreation uses, was approved
unanimously at town meeting. The Committee continues to support that effort to date.
Respectfully submitted,
Brandon Kibbe, Chairman
107
===PAGE 110===
The Zoning Board meetings are held on the second and fourth Wednesdays of the month at Town Hall
at 7:00 PM on an "as needed" basis.
The Zoning Board consists of the following members: Alfred Gravelle, Chairman, James Besarkarski,
Vice Chairman, Members: Hans Wentrup, David Blatt and Associate member Patrick Callahan. Lisa
Normandin serves as the Administrative Assistant to the Zoning Board.
We were saddened by the sudden death of our friend and Board member Paul Doherty. Paul served on
the Zoning Board.
The functions of your Zoning Board of Appeals as required by statures are as follows:
• To hear and decide applications for Variances from Town's Protective By-Laws as authorized in
the By-laws.
• To hear and decide applications for Special Permits as authorized in the Town's Protective By-
To hear and decide appeals in accordance with Chapter 40A, Section 8 of the Massachusetts
General Laws, as amended, from any person aggrieved by reason of his or her inability to obtain a
permit or entorcement action trom the Administrative Officer or Board in the Town, the Regional
Planning Agency, abutting City or Town or other Administrative Official.
To act upon application for comprehensive permits in accordance with Massachusetts General
Laws, Chapter 40B. The Zoning Board of Appeals reviews requests for comprehensive permits
submitted to the Board under Chapter 40B by developers who wish to create affordable housing.
These requests can, by law, circumvent local zoning ordinances.
The office is located in the Ritter Memorial Building at 960 Massachusetts Avenue.
Business hours are 8:00 AM to 4:00 PM, Monday and Wednesday and 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM Tuesday
and Thursday, closed Friday.
If you need any assistance from the Zoning Board of Appeals, please contact us at 978-582-4146 X 421
during regular business hours.
Zoning Board applications are available in the office and online at www.Lunenburgonline.gov.
108
===PAGE 111===
EDUCATION
109
===PAGE 112===

===PAGE 113===
strategic objectives that will address district needs and realize the potential for the district I am proud to
lead. One of the greatest challenges we face as a community is growing need and limited revenue. I
want to acknowledge and express my gratitude for a collaborative approach to projecting and planning
for current and future needs with the Town Manager, Heather Lemieux, and all the Town department
heads. I appreciate the effort on the part of the School Committee, Board of Selectmen, and Finance
Committee to strengthen communication and work collaboratively to problem-solve in order to meet the
educational needs of the children of Lunenburg.
Because Lunenburg values education, we have two beautiful, modern facilities for teaching and
learning; Lunenburg Middle-High School and Lunenburg Primary School. Turkey Hill Elementary
School is now fifty years old and we know that the community will have to determine the future of this
building in the next few years. A modern facility is but one factor in providing students with a quality
education. Rigorous programming designed to meet the academic, behavioral, social and emotional
needs of all of our students is foundational to a quality learning experience. It is also essential for the
cultivation of a culture of safety, inclusivity, caring, and learning in our schools. At the heart of a
who have the knowledge and skills requisite for effective instructional practice; a well-designed
learning. Seamless integration of instructional technology to create engaging lessons, provide
differentiated instruction and assessment, and facilitate analysis of achievement data to monitor the
growth and support the success of all of our students is also essential.
In October 2019, the School Committee approved the Strategy for Continuous Improvement which was
developed to address the findings of my entry process last year. The Strategy is designed to meet our
Mission:
The Mission of the Lunenburg Public Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence,
and passion for life-long learning so that they may find their own paths to successful careers, active
citizenship, and rewarding lives.
and Vision:
The Lunenburg Public Schools is committed to becoming a leader in education by focusing on its
values of attending to the personal well-being of its students, providing high-quality curricula and
student-centered instruction for deeper learning at all levels, and promoting the development of
attributes and skills necessary for continuous learning for all.
The Strategy for Continuous Improvement is a living document which will be reviewed annually and
adjusted as needed. The Strategic Objectives for the next three to five years are:
Transforming Teaching and Learning: To ensure teaching and learning are student-centered and
inclusive by: (1) establishing effective teams of educational leaders to accomplish the essential work for
transforming practice, and (2) hiring and developing excellent educators who are continually learning
and adapting practice to meet the needs of all students. (DSP Goals: 1, 2, 3, 5, {4, 73)
Cultivating Climate & Culture: To create a culture that values data use and fosters continuous
learning in a climate that is safe, caring, inclusive and reflective of our core values. (District Strategic
Plan Goals 1, 6)
111
===PAGE 114===
connident, and capable young adults adequately prepared for tuture challenges. (District strategic flan
Goals 1, 6)
To cultivate district-wide leadership in key areas identified in the Strategy for Continuous
Improvement, the Behavioral Health Advisory Council, Elementary Literacy Team, and Professional
Development Committee were created in 2018-2019. In 2019-2020, we added a District Advisory
Council and Equity Advisory Council. We expanded the District Leadership Team to include Food
Service and Health Service, and created an Instructional Leadership Team focused on improving
teaching and learning.
In August 2019, the Instructional Leadership Team participated in a data workshop. With guidance
from an instructional data consultant, the Team engaged in an analysis of the 2019 MCAS data as a
team. We know we must continue to focus on curricular and instructional supports in order to
increase the achievement and growth of our High Needs subgroup. Through the analysis, writing
emerged as an area for additional focus at all grades. All principals worked with staff to include
Student Learning Goals or Professional Practice Goals in writing in the Educator Evaluation Plans.
The Team also reviewed the Entry Report of Findings and student survey results and determined that
behavioral health (social emotional learning) was another key area in which our educators should
focus their Professional Practice Goals.
"One looks back with appreciation to the brilliant teachers, but with gratitude to
those who touched our human feelings. The curriculum is so much necessary raw
material, but warmth is the vital element for the growing plant and for the soul of the
child." ~ Carl Jung
As evidence of progress on our objectives, we have been revising and implementing our K-12 social
studies and history curriculum to align with the new Massachusetts History and Social Science
Curriculum Framework; providing professional development in literacy at Turkey Hill Elementary
School and Lunenburg Primary School. Lunenburg Primary School is participating in the second year
of a Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) literacy grant. At Lunenburg
Primary School we have continued with professional development in behavioral interventions and
supports. The LHS staff are engaging in the NEAS accreditation process and have done much
curriculum alignment as part of that process. The Behavioral Health Advisory Council and Wellness
Committee have conducted student surveys and screenings at LMHS. This data helps us identify
general student social and emotional needs and identify students who need intervention or supports.
We have made improvements to our before and after school programs in order to provide additional
learning experiences.
Perhaps the most impactlul work of this past year were two protessional development conference days
created by the Lunenburg Professional Development Committee. The team organized a phenomenal
full-day professional development day in September 2019 dedicated to behavioral health. All
members of our school community were invited to attend, including teachers, paraprofessionals, food
service, secretaries, custodians, and bus drivers.
112
===PAGE 115===
district needs to dedicate resources K-5 to support behavioral health needs, curriculum alignment,
namera niten vermon elective instruction practices perimen attire hit Elementary School.
Districtwide we need to examine how to shift curriculum and instruction practices to realize stronger
performance of our High Needs student subgroup.
2019 Accountability Summary
Classification
Progress Toward
Progress Toward
Improvement Targets
Improvement Targets
Accountability
Percentile
All Students
High Needs
District
THES
LMS
LHS
Not Requiring
Assistance or
Intervention
Not Requiring
Assistance or
Intervention
Not Requiring
Assistance or
Intervention
Not Requiring
Assistance or
Intervention
55%- Substantial progress
46%- Moderate progress
44%- Moderate progress
28%- Moderate progress
33
45%- Moderate progress
34%- Moderate progress
67
69%- Substantial progress 64%- Substantial progress
68
Under the Department of Elementary and Secondary Education's accountability system, annual
performance determinations for districts and schools are calculated using Indicators: English language
arts (ELA), Mathematics, and Science achievement; ELA and Mathematics mean student growth
percentile (SP); four-year cohort graduation rate, extended engagement rate, annual dropout rate;
student progress towards attaining English language proficiency; chronic absenteeism, and percentage of
11th & 12th graders completing advanced coursework.
Indicators are weighted. Substantial weight for achievement, growth, English language proficiency, and
graduation rate indicators is required by federal law. Federal law also requires that these indicators
combined should have much greater weight than the additional indicators. Under the accountability
system, the weighting of achievement and growth is based on ratios instead of percentages, maintaining
the achievement to growth ratio of 3 to 1.
Lastly, one of the greatest privileges as Superintendent is to honor a hard-working student with the
Superintendent's Award. Every year the selection process is difficult as we have many hard-working,
high-performing, community service oriented students. The recipient of the 2019 Superintendent's
Award is Breda Page-Violette. Breda is the President of National Honor Society and the recipient of the
113
===PAGE 116===
Grade Level
PK
1
2
Primary Total
4
5
Elementary Total
6
7
8
Middle School Total
9
10
11
12
High School Total
Advanced Community
Experience Program
(TCP)
All Schools Total
Lanenburg Resident
Students
47
126
145
120
120
124
119
140
126
142
96
124
106
88
438
363
408
School Choice
Students
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
12
0
0
2
Total
47
126
145
120
120
124
119
140
126
142
109
125
118
98
438
363
408
414
3
36
450
3
1626
36
1662
**Enrollment figures reflect removal of school choice and out of district students
114
===PAGE 117===
Security Upgrades
The district applied for a Safer Schools and Community Grant in April 2019 and was
awarded $55,500 for 32 additional security cameras. The project was bid with Johnson
Controls Security Solutions being awarded the work at $45,286.70. Work began in
November 2019 and is expected to be complete by January 2020. The number of additional
Cameras by school way Schendu. Mile alim Suboy is be 1 planned foremenay Serol.
the grant funds.
Water Testing
In the second year of widespread water testing for lead and copper in the drinking water at
all schools, in June 2019 lead was detected in a number of sources at Turkey Hill and
Passios Elementary School. The source of the lead is believed to be solder from joining
copper pipes. A number of high copper readings at Lunenburg Primary School suggest that
the water district's corrosion control program needed to be reviewed. The water district has
recommended that the ph level of the water needs to be raised. The teaching staff, parents
and students have been made aware of the need to flush water sources at the start of the
school day. Follow-up testing will occur at all schools in June 2020.
Energy Savings
The LED lighting conversion for Turkey Hill was completed in April 2019 with $36,233 in
Green Community grant funds which paid $14,347.53 for materials and $21,855.47 to
Duoba Electrical Contracting to install. The Green Community grant was supplemented by
$1719 from the school budget and the remainder of $14,500 from a Unitil Corporation
energy rebate.
Capital Program
The FY20 capital program continued to fund additional asbestos abatement at Turkey Hill
Elementary School. In July 2019 Air Quality Experts, for $154,704.29, removed spray-on
fireproofing above the ceiling on the south stairway and the second floor hallway of the
classroom wing. This project included removal of the splined ceiling and the floor tiles in
those areas. Turkey Hill Elementary School is expected to continue to have additional
asbestos removal in the coming year with three first floor classrooms still to be abated. A
request for $123,500 for FY21 was submitted into the town's capital planning process to
abate rooms 102, 113 and 114. The school department also requested funds to begin air
conditioning design for the Lunenburg Primary School classroom wing and the Turkey Hill
administration area. Three split air conditioning systems would be added to cover the main
office, guidance suite and nurse's office in July 2020 at an estimated cost of $28,000 if
approved.
Respectfully submitted,
John Londa
Director of Facilities and Grounds.
115
===PAGE 118===
working together to help redefine what is possible for our students, so they can redefine what's
possible for the world. Our annual report highlights the IT team, as well as our ongoing efforts to
improve the technology experience for students, faculty and staff.
The IT Team
Our team continues to learn and grow each year as we improve our infrastructure and explore
innovations in education technology.
Steve Malandrinos - Information Technology Director
Six years working for the Town and Schools
Previously an engineer at Cisco Systems, IT Director for the Town of Belchertown, MA and
Belchertown Public Schools
Daniel Nadareski - Network Administrator
• Retired Police Officer from the Albany, NY police force with over 24 years on the job
Prior experience includes computer crime and forensics, network administration, video security
system administration, and IP phone system administration
Nicholas Scoggins - School Technology Coordinator
• Received Associate and Bachelor of Science degrees from ITT Technical Institute
Served 5 years as Security System Administrator at Greater Lawrence Technical School
Jordan Pochini - Tech Support Specialist
• Graduated from Fitchburg State University with a degree in Computer Science
Prior experience includes both individual contributor and management roles in retail
environments
Each year we continue to increase our device-to-student ratio, putting technology directly into the
hands of more and more students. This year, we have a ratio of about one device for every 1.4
student's districtwide, while just a few years ago that number was closer to one device for every four
students.
Our ultimate goal remains to provide the tools necessary for faculty, staff, and students alike to
facilitate the learning process in a secure, highly-available, high-performing environment, and to
always just 'make IT work'.
Respectfully Submitted,
Steve Malandrinos, IT Director
116
===PAGE 119===
total number of students receiving services outside the district was 12 (last year was 14). Of the 12
students, 4 are placed in Collaborative Placements, 5 are in Day Placements and 3 are in Residential
Placements. Our Advanced Community Experience Program (ACE), which serves students ages 18-
22years old, had 6 students enrolled last year. Additionally, from the March 1, 2019 report, 138
students identified with a disability received accommodations via 504 plans in Lunenburg (last two
years were 118 and 103).
This year as a district, our overall Accountability and Assistance Level is NOT REQUIRING
ASSISTANCE OR INTERVENTION with the Primary School (Insufficient data, Turkey Hill
Elementary School (Not requiring assistance or intervention), Lunenburg Middle School (Not requiring
assistance or intervention), Lunenburg High School (Not requiring assistance or intervention) and the
Advanced Community Experience Program (Insufficient data).
The 2019 Official Accountability Report classifies "High Needs" students in Lunenburg as "Moderate
progress towards targets" in their overall progress toward improvement targets. Participation rates in
MCAS this year were as follows: High Needs =99%, Econ. Disadvantaged =99%, EL and Former EL
= 100%, and Students w/disabilities = 100%. This data can be found at the DESE website:
http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/accountabilitv/report/district.aspx?
linkid=30&orgcode=01620000& orgypecode=5&
Other data collected throughout the year is also important to consider when looking at the
whole Special Services Department. DESE requires us to collect data for certain Indicators they are
targeting each year. For our Indicators, the following information is available below and also can be
found at: http://profiles.doe.mass.edu/gis/spedmap.aspx?orgeode=01620000&
Indicator 1 - Graduation Rate. For the 2017-2018 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs
was 88% (was 86.0% last year). Lunenburg's rate was 62.5% (was 94.1% last year) and the overall state
rate was 72.2% (was 72.7% last year) for Students with IEPs.
Indicator 2 - Dropout Rate. For the 2017-2018 school year, the state target for Students with IEPs was
2.1% (was 2.4% last year). Lunenburg rate for Students with IEPs was 2.0% (it was 2.0% last year) and
the overall state rate was 2.5% (was 2.5% last year).
Indicator 3C- Proficiency Rate for Students with IEPs on MCAS. For the 2018 MCAS, Lunenburg
Students with Disabilities SS ratings were as follows:
Grade 3 - Reading:
Lunenburg = 483.1
Grade 3 - Mathematics:
Lunenburg = 473.6
Grade 4 - Reading:
Lunenburg = 474.8
Grade 4 - Mathematics:
Lunenburg = 475.6
State = 485.7
State = 481.8
State = 483.6
State = 479.2
117
===PAGE 120===
Grade 7 - Mathematics:
Grade 8 - ELA:
Lunenburg = 476.9
State = 476.5
Lunenburg = 480.7
State = 475.9
Grade 8 - Mathematics:
Lunenburg = 484.4
State = 477.8
For the 2018 MCAS, Lunenburg Students with Disabilities CPI ratings were as follows:
Grade 5 Science/Tech/Eng:
Lunenburg = 57.6
State = 57.6
Grade 8 Science/Tech/Eng:
Lunenburg = 63.2
State = 47.1
Grade 10 - ELA:
Lunenburg = 93.2
State = 88.6
Grade 10 - Mathematics:
Lunenburg = 68.2
State = 70.5
All Grades - Sci/Tech/Eng:
Lunenburg = 62.2
State = 58.7
Indicator 4 - Suspension (more than 10 days)/Expulsion for Students with IEPs. For Lunenburg, our
rate was 0% (last year it was .0%). The state rate was .6%. Additionally, Indicator 4B records
significant discrepancies with the Suspension/Expulsion rates by race or ethnicity. In 2018,
Lunenburg was not found to have any significant discrepancies due to these factors.
Indicator 5 - Educational Environments for Students Aged 6-21 with IEPs. For 2017-2018, the
state's rates are as follows: for Full Inclusion of students = 64.3%, Partial Inclusion = 15.2%,
Substantially Separate Placements = 13.5%, and for Separate Schools/Residential Facilities/
Homebound/Hospitals = 6.9%. In Lunenburg, our percentages are as follows: Full Inclusion =
69.4%, Partial = 12.9%, Substantially Separate = 8.1% and Separate schools, Residential, etc.= 9.7%.
Indicator 6 - Educational Environments for Students Aged 3-5 with IEPs. The 2017-2018 state rates
showed the percent of students receiving a majority of their special education and related services in a
Full Inclusion early childhood program was 54.4%, in a Partial Inclusion Program was 19.2%, a
Substantially Separate Placement (special education class, separate school, or residential facility) was
16.8%, and students not attending an early childhood program but receiving only a related service
(e.g. speech, OT, PT) was 9.6%. In Lunenburg, our early childhood Full Inclusion rate was 43.5%, our
Partial Inclusion rate was 26.1%, Substantially Separate rate was 17.4%, and Related Services was
13.0%.
Indicator 7 - Early Childhood Outcomes. Districts participate in Indicator 7 data collection as part of
a 4 year cycle in which they report exit data on children for whom they have collected entry level data;
exit may occur at any time during the subsequent three year period as the children leave the preschool
program. Lunenburg did not have a cohort completion year in 2017-2018.
Indicator 8 - Parent Involvement. This indicator measures the % of parents with a child receiving
special education who report that school facilitated parent involvement as a means of improving
services and results for students with IEPs. For 2017-2018 the state target was 86%. Lunenburg's
rate was 91.3% and the state's rate was 82.9% (from information collected in the spring of 2017).
118
===PAGE 121===
Indicator 12 - Early Childhood Transition. This indicator measures the % of children referred by Part
C, found eligible for special education services, and who have an IEP developed and implemented by
their third birthdays. The state target for this indicator in 100% and Lunenburg is noted as "Suppressed".
Data is suppressed if the number of students referred by Part C and found eligible for special education
services is fewer than 10.
Indicator 13 Secondary Transition. In all years, the state target for Secondary Transition is 100%.
This indicator measures the % of youth with IEPs aged 16 and above with an IEP that includes
appropriate measurable postsecondary goals that are annually updated and based upon an age
appropriate transition assessment, transition services, including courses of study, that will reasonably
enable the student to meet those postsecondary goals, and annual IEP goals related to the student's
transition services needs. Lunenburg was last reviewed in this area in 2017-2018 and was 83.3% in
compliance.
Indicator 14 - Post-School Outcomes for Students with IEPs. This indicator measures the % of
students with IEPs who exited high school during the 2016-2017 school year and self-reported post-
school engagement in education or employment one year after leaving high school. Engagement is
defined through three measurements:
•
Measurement A: Enrolled in higher education within one year of leaving high school.
•
Measurement B: Enrolled in higher education or competitively employed within one year of leaving
high school.
• Measurement C: Enrolled in higher education, or in some other postsecondary education or training
program; or competitively employed, or in some other employment within one year of leaving high
school.
Measurements are cumulative with Measurement C reflecting the total number of exiters engaged in a
post-secondary activity one year after leaving high school. For the 2017-2018 school year, state targets
for the three measurements of Post-School Outcomes are Measurement A: 53%; Measurement B: 88%;
and Measurement C: 95%. Lunenburg rates
are as follows (from reporting year 2014-15):
Measurement A = 50%, Measurement B = 75%, and Measurement C = 75%.
The Parent Advisory Council Supporting All Learners (PACSAL) continues to be an active
support group for parents, teachers and administration. All parents and community members can join
the group, which currently consists of parents of students receiving Title I services and parents of
students with disabilities. Meetings are typically held the first Friday of each month, 11:00 AM, in the
Planning Room at the Middle School. The Executive Board is made up of Chairperson Kelly Harvey.
Several events and presentations were organized by the PACSAL for both parents and teachers in
Lunenburg this year,
For more information, go to:
https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/lps/special-
services/pacsal?authuser=0
119
===PAGE 122===
remain committed to the Lunenburg Public Schools mission, "The mission of the Lunenburg Public
Schools is to provide all students with the skills, confidence, and passion for life-long learning so that
they may find their own paths to successful careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives." This is a
total community effort and we encourage ALL Lunenburg residents to join with us to create positive
experiences and futures for our children.
For additional information, please visit our website at: https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/
Ips/special-services, or contact Julianna Hanscom, Director of Special Services, Special Services Office,
1025 Massachusetts Ave, (978) 582-4100, ext. 305.
Respectfully Submitted,
Julianna Hanscom
Director of Special Services
Lunenburg School Lunch Program
Lunenburg School Food Service welcomes Zach Welton to our team. Zach is a Lunenburg High alumni,
Class of 2019.
We started a breakfast pilot in the Middle School on March 25, 2019 and continued through to the end
of the school year. This pilot confirmed the need for breakfast in school and we were able to expand
breakfast to all of our students at the start of school year 2019-2020. There is a link between breakfast
and learning; students experience an improved learning environment. When breakfast is available at
school students have improved attendance, decreased tardiness and discipline referrals.
Breakfast is available Monday through Friday including early release days. Participation continues to
grow. Please check out our webpage located at www.lunenburgschools.net/school-lunchfood-services
for details regarding our breakfast and lunch program along with information from the National School
Lunch Program. Meal benefits are an ongoing process and you can fill out an application at any time.
The federal government requires a new application each school year. Free and Reduced meal
applications can be found on our website page listed above.
We are happy to have catered the boys' and girls' Varsity and IV soccer banquet again this fall. What a
pleasure it is to see the student athletes and their families in this setting. Thank you to Angela Ashton,
Dennis Mannon and the Soccer Boosters for supporting our program while celebrating theirs. Check out
the catering menu on our webpage and let us cater your next event.
Respectfully Submitted,
Nadine Lorenzen
Food Service Director
120
===PAGE 123===
The October 1, 2019 student enrollment reported to the Department of Elementary and Secondary
Education was 421 students. Currently, our Preschool program services 45 three and four year old
students. We have six Kindergarten classes servicing 123 students. Class sizes in our Kindergartens are
at 20-21 students. This year we have six first grade classrooms servicing 147 students with class sizes
ranging between 23-25. Five second grade classrooms have 119 students with class sizes averaging at
24 students.
Our professional development has centered on literacy instruction and Social Emotional Learning this
year. In early October we received notification from Governor Charles D. Baker that the school was
awarded a FY20 Early Grades Literacy grant of $37,705. This grant funded teacher participation in an
extensive professional development opportunity that included three statewide literacy institutes and
follow-up regional meetings. Along with a consultant who works with teachers to provide clear, specific
examples of how the early literacy aligns with our goals and supports the staff in a coaching model.
We explored the development of writing in young children (birth-9); the role language plays in literacy;
and the content of the Massachusetts ELA/Literacy Framework Standards for Language. Teachers
discussed strategies to engage early grades students in writing, and thinking about the content they are
learning in order to write with purpose and reason. The grant team shared information with grade level
teams throughout the year. Our second grade team has worked with Mary Canner from Teachers21 and
they have focused on implementing, Lucy Calkins: Units for Study for teaching reading, this Readers'
Workshop model helps teachers provide their students with instruction, opportunities for practice, and
concrete doable goals to help them meet and exceed any set of high standards.
The main goal of this
design is to prepare students for any reading and writing task they will face and to turn kids into life-
long, confident readers and writers who display agency and independence.
Our staff works to maintain a school culture which is positive, inclusive, and supportive. In September
and November all of the Primary staff participated in two full days of professional development on
Positive Behavior Intervention and Supports (PBIS). Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports
(PBIS) is an evidence-based three-tiered framework for improving and integrating all of the data,
systems, and practices affecting student outcomes every day. The system supports all students through a
multi-tiered framework and this year's focus was the Universal Tier (Tier 1). We have worked with
Maureen Gilman of Seaside Educational Consultants to develop universal school-wide positive
expectations that are practiced throughout our school community. We have worked on establishing and
teaching the school wide expectations along with having a continuum of encouraging expected behavior
and discouraging problem behaviors. This system is aligning nicely with The Anchors of Emotional
Intelligence, a whole-school/district-wide approach to teaching social emotional learning which the staff
has been trained in and is using to help students recognize, understand, describe, communicate and
regulate their emotions.
The Primary School is a Title One school and we have continued our tiered instructional system to
insure that all students have the services they need to be successful.
Common assessments are
completed in the fall, winter, and spring for all children in grades K-2 in the areas of reading, writing,
and math. These common assessments serve to monitor the effectiveness of teacher instruction and the
progress of students. Struggling students are identified for additional support in Reading, Math, Speech,
Occupational and Physical Therapy.
121
===PAGE 124===
Principal:
Assistant Principal
Teachers:
Parents:
Community Representative:
School Committee Rep:
Christina Guertin
Chad Adams
Vicky Barbier, Christa Palma, and Kirsten Snape
Tiffaney Tavares (Co-chair), Laura Kelly and Beth Graham
Debra Chapdelaine
Brian Lehtinen
I was excited to be given the opportunity to serve as the principal at the Lunenburg Primary School this
year. I am coming to Lunenburg with twenty-six years of experience in Grades PK-Grade 6 and have
been in the leadership role for the last nineteen years. Engaging on a daily basis with the youngest
learners in our school district enlightens me every day. I look forward to supporting this community as
we work together to educate our youngest schoolchildren.
The faculty and staff are honored and proud of the work we do with children. We are committed to the
personal well-being of our students as we improve learning opportunities and promote a life-long desire
for knowledge in each of them.
For more information about the work that we do at the Lunenburg Primary School please visit our
website: https://sites.google.com/a/lunenburgschools.net/primary/
Respectfully submitted,
Christina Guertin, Principal
122
===PAGE 125===
Krissy Carbone Admin Secty
Lisa Lavery - School Nurse
Caryn Savell - Guidance Counselor
Karen Tata - Office Clerk
Pre-School
Sherrie Flynn - Teacher
Patti McColl - Para
Brittany Wise-Para
Sarah Doyle - Teacher
Sue Finnegan - Para
Suzie Barney - Para
Achieve
ittanv Penoli- Teache
Laurie Xarras - Para
Christine DeFelice - Teacher
Alyssa Corrigan - Para
Nico Robbuccio - Para
Shelly Muth - Para
K1-Kirsten Snape - Teacher
Kaitlin Clement - Para
K2-Carly Surrette - Teacher
Serene Pease - Para
K3-Sheila Bilotta - Teacher
Julie Drake - Para
K4 - Deb Zivojinovic - Teacher
Monique Mola - Para
K5 - Nancy Murray - Teacher
Sarah Call- Para
K6 - Amy Raffaelle - Teacher
Tracey Faraday- Para
First Grade Teachers
1A - Michael Courtemanche
1B - Nicole Bienvenu
1C - Kara Courtemanche
1D - Christa Palma
1E - Jackie Favreau
1F - Nicole LaVallee
2C-Sara Kenney
2D- Patty Kilcommins
2F-Nancy Chapdelaine
Physical Education/Health
Gen Nass
Art
Heidi Quinlivan
Music
Katie Swenson
Library Media/Technology
Tara Gauthier
Special Education
Laura Refrigeri
Michelle Withers
Kristen Anthony
Reading Specialist
School Psychologist
Alison Alves-Pigeon
Paraprofessionals
Sue Ahearn - 2nd/grade
Marci Donahue - 1st Grade
Alicia McCallister - Para
Cailey Powell- Para
Corrine Jones- Para
Liz Johnson-Para
Specialists
Mary Sieling - Speech
Sue Richards - Phys. Therap
Jayne Dusek - COTA
Maggie Porpora - Occup Therap.
Kristi Schkuta-BCBA
Elena Oksanish-Speech
Cafeteria
Elly Forgues - Cafeteria Manager
Karolyn Braman
Dalia Marzuca
123
===PAGE 126===
Shawn Sproul
Turkey Hill Elementary School
Our fourth year as Turkey Hill Elementary has gotten off to a strong start. There are currently 364
students, with 120 third graders, 124 fourth graders, and 120 fifth graders. The average homeroom size
is 24. Our MCAS data from the spring of 2019 indicates we are meeting or exceeding expectations
above state averages in the following areas: Grade 3 Math at 55%, and Grade 5 Science at 50%. There
are teaching teams of 2 as well as self-contained classrooms at each grade. Special area classes include
art, music, PE, library, technology, and computer skills.
Teachers are engaging in a variety of trainings. 4* and 5th
grade teachers have received professional
development in Calkins Units of Study, Reader's Workshop and 3rd
grade teachers in Writer's
Workshop.
Math teachers have participated in trainings for IXL math and using Cuisenaire rods for number sense.
A full day of professional development in November was dedicated to behavioral health. In December,
a number of us visited a charter school in Cambridge with laudatory MCAS scores and others went to
Framingham State for a math conference.
We are offering many after school activities for students this winter. About 100 students signed up for a
variety of goings-on including cooking: they've experimented with graham cracker art and ice-cream in
a bag; winter wonderland: sledding and snowman creations on the hill behind LMHS; crafts: sock
puppets; science: fake boogers, baking soda and vinegar explosions, and bouncy balls; drama club and
chess. We had the Girls on the Run program in the fall with 18 participants, coached by two third grade
teachers.
Fifth graders spent a week in Beckett, MA enjoying the Nature's Classroom program. The Bridges
program introduced students to several senior citizen volunteers who came in to share their life
experiences and learn about the younger generation. The six week program culminated in a walking
field trip to the Eagle House in December. Grade 5 teachers lead regular walking field trips to the public
library every month so students can become good community members with the responsibility of
borrowing and returning library books.
In June the students attended a Worcester Bravehearts baseball game at Hanover Park and enjoyed the
activities for Baseball in Education Day. We finished the year with our first "completion ceremony" for
fifth grade students to celebrate the end of their elementary years.
The TIGER performances from Plymouth State University provided a program to Grades 3 and 4 in
December about how to be a good friend and how to speak up for others. This was underwritten by a
generous grant from the Maki Foundation. Fourth graders will welcome the Boston Museum of Science
out in the spring to learn about vibrations and how changes in their frequency and amplitude result in
different kinds of sound. Third graders took a trip to Monty Tech for a performance of The Nutcracker.
124
===PAGE 127===
at Extended Day. We appreciate the support from our Box Top collectors and counters, Hannaford
Helps supporters, Community Reader day volunteers, parents (both those who support their children at
home as well as those who donate hours to school), our Veterans Day and Memorial Day guests and
guest speakers.
Our Kylee's Kare Kit pilot has expanded to include students from both the Primary school and the
middle school. We held a fundraiser in March, a Walk-Jog-athon that raised about $5000 in donations
and covers our participation in the program. We provide over 50 students in need weekend bags of
food, including winter and spring break and summer vacation. Many staff members from THES and
the Primary School volunteer on Friday evenings to prepare over 400 bags for Lunenburg and
Leominster students.
We continued a band program for grade five students. There are over 30 students who participate and
learn their instruments in sectionals and as part of a full band twice weekly. They demonstrate their
progress during two yearly performances. All three grades have a general music class once a week and
graders are introduced to instruments through recorder instruction. All students also have the
opportunity to participate in an after school music program to learn piano, guitar, etc.
As an elementary school we understand that our mission extends far beyond the academic. We model,
teach and promote the CARES qualities of civility, achievement, respect, effort, and sportsmanship. We
provide explicit instruction in coping strategies, self-regulation skills, and calming techniques. New
age appropriate picture books at each grade to introduce students to diverse cultures and expand their
understanding of the world. We teach responsible digital citizenship in an era where soon they will be
inundated with social media. We celebrate the positive role models that exist in our school community
with student-of-the-month acknowledgements and Golden Turkey acknowledgements for staff. We
encourage children to "Show What They Know" at MCAS time, which demands their best effort. The
mission of providing students with the skills, confidence and passion for life-long learning begins
during these years, and we collaborate with parents and families to set them on the path to successful
careers, active citizenship, and rewarding lives.
Respectfully Submitted,
Heidi Champagne
Principal, Turkey Hill Elementary School
125
===PAGE 128===
vulaance
Gail Okerman
Alison Alves Pigeon
Special Areas
Nathanael Blankenship
Julie Ferdella
Heidi Quinlivan
Victoria Whipple
Learning Center/Special Education
Ana-Sofia Fernandes
Amy Jones
Lynn Major
Cynthia Rosancrans
Laura Wyld
Kristi Schkuta
Maggie Porpora
Grade 4
Erin Blanchette
Gina Cote
Heather Witham
Charlotte Letendre
Lynn Marabello
Grade 5
Michael Smith
Brian Chartrand
Jeff Cournoyer
Sherri Borreson
Rhonda Connery
Paraprofessionals
Samantha Staples
Cassandra Cardillo
Tatianna Nygren
Kerry Roder
Judith Pierce
Jennifer Bidleman
Kathleen Cordeiro
Carrie Arciprete
Cafeteria
John Terho
Sheryl Ewen
Danielle LeBlanc
Achieve Programs
Kate Robinson
Melody Henry
Alison Melvin
Angela Stefaniak
Custodians
Tim deBettencourt
Dominic Dilorenzo
Rob Roy
Scott Rezendes
Joe Tamalavitch
Ben Pellerin
126
===PAGE 129===
embraces the philosophy of educating the whole child academically, socially, and emotionally. This
philosophy is a means by which all students become positive community members that possess the
skills to be successful in high school and beyond.
Lunenburg Middle School is in its fourth year as a co-located middle-high school serving grades six
through eight in a beautiful facility. Effective, student centered middle schools embrace
interdisciplinary teams of teachers that enable teachers to work with smaller groups of students. Smaller
groups of students allow teachers to learn and engage students in their preferred learning style, making
them more confident and successful.
Our effective middle school model is student centered and provides opportunities to explore a variety of
different interests and talents through special area and enrichment classes and extracurricular activities.
One of our goals is for students to discover something they are passionate about and want to continue
exploring as they move through high school and beyond. We will continue to seek out opportunities for
students that foster critical thinking and problem solving skills that prepare them for high school and
beyond or what their passion may lead them to.
% of Students scoring in the meeting or exceeding expectations range Spring 2018 MCAS
In reviewing the results of the 2019 Spring MCAS tests, our percentage of students scoring in the
GRADE
SUBJECT
LMS
STATE
DIFF
SGP
6
7
ELA
Math
ELA
Math
56%
65%
53%
52%
47%
63%
48%
48%
+3
+13
-1
+15
60
58.9
48.5
52.6
8
8
8
ELA
Math
Sci and Tech/Eng
66%
64%
69%
52%
46%
48 %
+14
+18
+ 21
52.5
53.1
N/A
meeting or exceeding expectations range remains strong and above the state average in 6 of the 7 tested
areas in the middle school. In 5 of the 7 tested areas of MCAS, Lunenburg Middle school is double digit
percentiles above the state average. The Department of Elementary and Secondary Education provides
an accountability rating for all schools and districts in the state based upon next generation MCAS
testing.
127
===PAGE 130===
scores in grade eight Science Technology and Engineering are 20% higher than the state average.
Although we are proud of our students' performance, we continue to analyze data in our monthly results
faculty meetings designed to improve our instruction for all students. Our faculty has identified areas of
improvement based upon the data and implemented strategies to improve their instructional practices
that will help students succeed.
We continue to utilize intervention and power blocks during the school day to meet the needs of each
individual student. These blocks of instructional time that have been built into our master schedule to
allow teachers time to work with students at their own individual skill level. The philosophy is to
challenge students who are high academic achievers as well as strengthen skills for students who have
identified weaknesses. Teachers are able to work with students in a small group to answer individual
questions or provide more individualized support. We design this support model to allow students to
feel more confident, thus, perform better in the classroom. We will continue to refine our intervention
block times to best meet the needs of our students. One option for students during this intervention
block is the use of our web-based program called IXL. IXL allows students to work at their own skill
level, build confidence and moved forward with work that is aligned with the state standards. IXL
allows teachers a tool for true differentiation for every student allowing them to work and grow at their
own pace and level.
Lunenburg Middle School continues to offer enrichment blocks for all students. Enrichment classes
provide students a block of time in which they receive instruction in the areas of developmental health
and guidance. Students also receive instruction in physical education, art, and music classes that allows
them to explore their strengths and talents. Students also have the opportunity to sign up for and
participate in band and chorus during this block. This enrichment block is in addition to the traditional
special area classes students receive, and this block offers students additional physical movement
throughout the day, additional opportunities for hands on activities and more exposure to the arts,
library and technology throughout the school day.
We make a positive impact on the students we serve by offering a variety of different programs
developed to promote social and emotional growth, self-awareness, and community service. We will
continue to utilize Developmental Design program to deliver our social emotional curriculum. Students
meet with teachers in small groups to teach social responsibility and problem solving, as well as
developing empathy and promoting positive self-esteem and strong teacher/student relationships. Our
social emotional programs have been developed to allow students to showcase their talents and abilities,
grow and improve as individuals, and promote community outreach for the younger generation.
We also provide students the opportunity to direct their own learning with a program called Genius
Hour. Genius Hour fosters a passion for learning back into the curriculum by having students facilitate
their own learning based on their interests.
Lunenburg Middle School continues to provide high quality educational services and supports that
ensure student success and promote a passion for lifelong learning. The key components to our success
is our talented faculty committed to making a positive impact on students, our parents and community
who support our teaching and learning, and most of all, our students who inspire us through their
commitment to learning. Together we continue to make the difference in the lives of students.
===PAGE 131===
Guidance
Karma Tousignant
Cheryl Nelson
Ashley Parent (Speech)
Lori Shea (Psychologist
Mary Young (BCBA)
Specials
Therrien, Nicole (PE)
Rios, Jennifer (PE)
Sheldon, Geoffrey (Music)
Belair, Dana (Tech)
Warren, Robin (Art)
Health Office
Katie McGuire
Achieve:Middle School
Jaime Moore
Christina Grote
oth Grade:
Beth Arsenault
Emily Clarke
Susan Reardon
Melanie Pouliot
Kristine Bassett
Lisa LeBlanc
7th Grade:
Megan Bertoni
Tim Sheasgreen
Krista Diamantopoulos
Dawn Grebinar
Katherine Antaya
8th Grade:
Martha Sullivan
Meredith Cormier
Mary Whitaker
Amy Raboin
Linda Collette
Will Guerra
Special Ed. Middle School:
Lizek, Maura 6th
Mobley, Melanie 7th
Brenda Rolfe
Porpora, Maggie (OT)
Richard, Susan (PT)
Custodial
Jeri Sampson, Head Custodian
Richard Krafve
Marc St. Jean
David Ashness
Tanner Cote
Bill Henning
Paraprofessionals
Judith Barone
Lauriana Goode
Darlene Caron
Kathleen Hyatt
Christine Catalini
Terry Klingler
Sandra Sheehy
Karen Smith
Nina Sobecky
Meagan Rodrick
Marybeth Ulf
Kelly Waterman
Jamie Cuddahy
129
===PAGE 132===
Technology IT:
Scoggins, Nick
Samantha Collier
Cafeteria:
Pichnarcik, Patty
Carol Hamilton
Stella Carlson
Eleni Tsiakalos
Sarah Romano
130
===PAGE 133===
During the fall sports season, our students practiced and competed on our fields and artificial turf field.
The youth sports teams in the community were scheduled on the fields, as well. During the fall season,
most of our fields were being used from 3:00 pm to 8:00 pm.
The winter season has been very busy, as well. The gym and weight room are being used for a large
portion of the afternoon and evening by our basketball teams, indoor track and field teams, and students
and community members in the Adult Education Program. Additionally, we have athletics teams
practicing and competing at: Wallace Civic Center, The Groton School, Nashoba Valley Ski Area, and
at Fitchburg High School. Our actors and actresses have been rehearsing since January for the
Competitive Class Plays.
NEASC ACCREDITATION
Lunenburg High School is currently going through the accreditation process. Lunenburg High School is
currently working on the five priority areas and the graduate profile for the NEASC school growth plan.
The five Priority Growth Areas are: Curriculum Maps, Professional Growth/Development, School Civic
Engagement, Instructional Practices, and Emergency Response Procedures. The five areas we are
currently working on to produce a report for our NEASC accreditation. The final accreditation visit will
be conducted in March and will look at how well we are making progress on our growth plan.
SCHOOL/COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS
Throughout the year, Lunenburg High School students are involved in a multitude of fundraising and
collection endeavors. In the fall, a canned goods drive was held. This was run by NHS and it was a
competition with Oakmont to see who could raise the most canned goods for charity. Oakmont won the
competition by a narrow margin and both schools helped contribute a lot of non-perishable foods to
local food banks. Around the holiday season, advisories, LEA, STUCO, NHS and numerous other
agencies collected items for the Lunenburg Gift Card Mart Drive.
A Senior English class called community service learning is a class in which students are tasked with
researching and identifying needs in the community and then forming an action plan to address the
needs. For example, we have students working on: careers that do not require college level degrees.
This is to help students make a career choice that does not require a college degree.
LHS has held or will be holding presentations for parents/guardians on the following topics:
•
Planning for High School (grade 8)
• Early College Planning (grades 9-10)
• Post-Secondary Education Planning (grade 11)
• College Application Process (grade 12)
• Financing your Education/Financial Aid (grades 8-12)
131
===PAGE 134===
school's percentile is ranked in the 69* percentile. We are very proud of the work that our students and
teachers have done to prepare for the MCAS test. While we are recognized as a high performing school,
we understand this is only one measure used to show student growth and that there is constantly room
for improvement.
Lunenburg High School - 2019 MCAS Results (Grade 10)
We are extremely proud of our students and teachers for their continued improvement, and we will work
Subject Test
Exceeding Expectations / Meeting
State Average (EE/ME)
Expectations
ELA
Math
78%
71%
61%
58%
Subject Test
Science/Technology
Advanced / Proficient
84%
State Average (Adv/Pro)
73%
to move all students to the level of meeting expectations and proficiency as measured by MCAS and our
goal of college and career readiness as they move through our curriculum.
We were also very pleased to learn that 25 seniors at Lunenburg High School received the state's John
and Abigail Adams Scholarship this year. The scholarship is available to students whose MCAS
performance puts them at the top 25 percent of their district. To be eligible, students must either score
Advanced on one exam and Proficient on the other, or Advanced on both the English and Math exams.
HOMECOMING, ATHLETICS AND EXTRACURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
Homecoming was once again a great town-wide celebration, culminating with a beautiful parade
complete with floats representing all four high school classes. Many of our sports teams qualified for
tournament and district play. The Lunenburg High School Marching Band participated in three
competitions in the tall. The LHS Mock Trial Team is working hard and in full swing. Jazz Band and
the Math team represented LHS in numerous competitions; the 54th annual Competitive Class Plays
will be a delight to watch, and the Music & Art Expo as well as the Senior Showcase are scheduled for
the spring.
COMMUNITY BUILDING
National Honor Society successfully supported the "Gift Card Drive" during the holidays, helping to
provide joy to needy children and families in conjunction with local agencies. The World Hunger Task
Force will be raising money through Penny Wars this spring. The money will be donated toward the
fight against hunger.
132
===PAGE 135===
Principal
Assistant Principal
Nurse
Robert McGrath
Annica Scott
Carolyn Finch
LUNENBURG HIGH SCHOOL
Faculty/Staff Roster
2019-2020
Admin. Assistant
Secretary
Secretary
Tina Cooney
Debra Aro
Katie Berry
Math
Sarah Sabatini
Andrew Cantatore
Jennifer Miller*
Eric Short
Casey McNally
Language Arts
Mary Foyle
Erinanne Burroughs
Timothy Macuga
Michael Hannigan
Paul Harmon
Julia Callahan*
Science
Dawn Gearin*
Mitchell Friedman
Craig Pingsterhaus
Jennifer Biery
Robert Hill
Richard Cohen
Foreign Language
Peggy Proctor*
Jessica Beardmore
Tamara Yourk
Heidi Hewitt
Lynn Radford
Social Studies
Warren Stevenson*
Bradford Hausler
Timothy Normandin
Hailee Martin
Timothy Macuga
Unified Arts
Alexis Pukaite
Steven Boone
Derek Guimond
Caryn Wardwell
Nathan DiPerri
Karyn Giuliani
Pamela Vallee
133
===PAGE 136===
Amanda Duggan
Jennifer Stadler
Alicia Garamy
Todd Foster
Jaime Millett
Mary Young
Lori Shea
Guidance
Susan Cavaioli
Jeff Dionne
Cheryl Nelson
Penney Borneman
Paraprofessionals
Ethan Cheesman
Alex Mihalich
Jon Malloy
Kimberly Monsini
Tina Stateler
Joseph Adamowicz
Mackenzie Flagg
Lyndsi Smith
Lauren Portillo
Michael Barry
Jose Martinez
Speech/Lang.
Social Worker
BCBA
School Psych
Cafeteria
Patti Pichnarcik
Carol deBettencourt
Eleni Tsiakalos
Sarah Romano
Valerie Martin
Zach Welton
Custodians
Geraldine Sampson-Head
Richard Krafve- Lead
Marc St. Jean
Jim Gentilella
Tanner Cote
John Sodano
134
===PAGE 137===
MONTACHUSETT
REGIONAL VOCATIONAL
TECHNICAL SCHOOL
2019
ANNUAL
REPORT
MONTACHUSETT REGIONAL VOCATIONAL TECHNICAL SCHOOL
1050 Westminster Street, Fitchburg, MA 01420
WWW.MONTYTECH.NET
135
===PAGE 138===
comprehensive high school, our students are also learning a valuable trade - skills they will carry with
them for a lifetime. These vocational skills may provide opportunities for our graduates to work their
way through college; they may open the door to new, related career pathways, or they may be the
foundation for a lifelong career. The education and training they receive at Monty Tech will open doors
and allow them to choose a college and/or career pathway that will define their future.
Monty Tech academic programs continue to serve students at all levels well. This year, students
completed the Next Generation MCAS, and earned commendable passing rates: English Language Arts
99%, Mathematics 97%, and Biology 99%. Monty Tech students exceeded the state averages in all 3
subjects. In addition, great strides were made in our relatively new Advanced Placement programs,
with more than 60% of test takers earning a score of 3 or better. Finally, an all-new science program
was fully integrated in FY19 - Biomedical Sciences. This rigorous sequence of courses was met with
enthusiasm from students and staff, so plans to expand this Project Lead the Way programming are
underway. Our talented academic faculty continue to refine curriculum, incorporate new instructional
strategies, and challenge every student to reach new levels, and we couldn't be prouder of the results.
And while we are certainly proud of our academic and vocational training programs, a Monty Tech
yiM. Lty Tech
experience would not be complete without participating in meaningful community service. Last year
we were honored to once again host the Wreaths Across America Convoy with a remembrance
ceremony as it made its way down to Arlington National Cemetery. As the convoy left the school
parking lot and hundreds of American flags waved, I was reminded once again of the value of a Monty
lech education. For a moment, our students were taken out of the classrooms and shops and asked to
think about what this convoy meant, where it was heading and how they were a small part of the
ceremony. They were asked to consider service, and through the waves and cheers it was clear that
Monty Tech students knew and understood the meaning behind that experience. It's not often that high
school students are asked to stop and think about others and how they might contribute to another
person's well-being. But at Monty Tech, our students are not only familiar with the concept, they are
committed to community service. Whether it is building a carriage house for the NEADS program,
designing and building dugouts for area Little League programs, or ensuring handicap accessibility in
dated town offices, our staff and students are proud to serve.
While students and instructors across the school continue to demonstrate creativity, innovation, and
leadership, school leaders continue to keep an eye on emerging trends in vocational education. As we
prepare these talented students to make important life choices, we are reminded that in the end, the
choice is theirs to make: college or career or both. It is our job to support their aspirations and to
educate and train them to achieve at the highest possible level. On behalf of our talented educators and
administrators, who remain focused on delivering the highest quality academic and vocational-technical
education possible, I am delighted to present the District's 2018-2019 annual report to you, providing a
snapshot of the wonderful experiences happening on a day-to-day basis here at MontyTech.
Respectfully submitted,
While I Marity
Sheila M. Harrity, Ed.D., Superintendent-Director
136
===PAGE 139===
serving the member towns of.
Ashburnham
Ashby
Athol
Barre
Fitchburg
Gardner
Harvard
Holden
Hubbardston
Lunenburg
Petersham
Phillipston
Princeton
Royalston
Sterling
Templeton
Westminster
Winchendon
Leadership
The leadership team at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School is comprised of ten
talented administrators whose varied educational backgrounds, professional experiences, and
areas of expertise contribute to the success of the school. Working collaboratively, and under the
direction of the Superintendent and Principal, the team has transformed the school into one of the
most sought-after high schools in North Central Massachusetts.
Sheila M. Harrity, Superintendent-Director
Tom Browne, Principal
Dayana Carlson, Assistant Principal
Tammy Crockett, Business Manager
Christina Favreau, Director of Academic Programs
Jim Hachey, Director of Vocational Programs
Enrollment
2018-2019 Student Enrollment
• Females
Gender Neutral
On June 1, 2019, student enrollment at Monty Tech included
1,398 students in grades nine through twelve, representing
each of the district's eighteen sending communities. Each
class of students is comprised of a relatively equal balance of
male vs. female students, and each student attending Monty
Tech has elected to do so, prepared to explore an interest in
one of the school's twenty-one rigorous vocational-technical
programs. While
the school currently offers only five
programs non-traditional for male
students, and twelve
programs non-traditional for female students, we are proud to
have a student population that is well- balanced by gender
and a variety of academic interests and achievements.
137
===PAGE 140===
50
58
59
70
29
Ashby
Athol
49
Barre
1
Holden
Phillipston
Princeton
Royalston
Stening
Tomption
Out-of-District
Throughout 2018-2019, Monty Tech offered a variety of opportunities for students, parents
and community members to learn about and visit the school.
In October 2018, approximately 450 district eighth graders participated in the annual "Tour Day"
event. Students toured our twenty-one vocational-technical areas and learned about the school's
challenging academic offerings and exciting athletic and extracurricular programs.
Career Awareness Night offered interested students the opportunity to return in the evening with their
family members to further explore the facilities and speak with staff members.
The Vocational Interest Program (V.I.P.) offers area seventh and eighth grade students the chance to
visit Monty Tech after school and participate in hands
on learning experiences across a variety of vocational-technical areas. The program continued to
attract a large number of students during the 2018-2019 school year, serving approximately 700 area
students.
Class of 2019 Awards
Members of the Class of 2019 were awarded approximately $200,000 in scholarships, tools, and
equipment. The Monty Tech Foundation generously provided $36,000 in scholarships to graduating
seniors, ranging in amounts of $500 to $2,000. The Foundation also awarded $3,250 to the Practical
Nursing graduates. Once again, local and state organizations, as well as generous individuals,
continue to recognize the ability and potential of Monty Tech graduates in the form of financial
donations. The School Committee, administration, faculty, and graduates are grateful for this support.
Articulation Agreements with local colleges also play an important role in helping reduce the cost of
higher education. Qualified Monty Tech students are eligible to receive college credits through a
number of articulation agreements with public and private colleges across the country.
Approximately 38% of the graduating class of 2019 reported plans to enroll at a 4-ear college/
university upon graduation. By earning college credits while still in high school, these students will
save both time and money as they pursue advanced educational programs.
Financial Report
In an effort to develop a cost-effective budget for the fiscal year 2018-2019, a great deal of effort was
put forth by the School Committee, administration, and staff.
138
===PAGE 141===
educational and social services to the student population. For fiscal year 2019, State and federal grant
Services, Social Intervention and Mediation, Improving Teacher Quality, Special Education Services
Reserve Officer Training.
The District also received more than $465,000 in competitive grants,
including a Skills Capital Grant for $385,000 to purchase equipment for new hospital beds, EKG
machines and an Anatomage Table to benefit the Health Occupations and Practical Nursing programs
as well as new diagnostic certification tools to benefit the Automotive Technology program. The
District also received $80,000 in funds to increase school safety.
Using these allocation and
competitive funds, the school was able to purchase a variety of instructional technology, equipment,
and supplies to enhance the learning experience.
Academic Achievement
During the spring of 2019, students at Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School continued
to demonstrate high academic achievement, earning commendable scores on the MCAS in English
Language Arts, Mathematics, and Biology. This year, students completed the Next Generation MCAS
- a computer-based test that is designed to give students a clear signal on whether they are on track for
college and career readiness.
The new standards are more rigorous than the standards for the Legacy
MCAS. Monty Tech's passing rate on the English Language Arts was 99%, Mathematics 97%,
Biology 99%. Monty Tech students exceeded the state averages in all 3 subjects. With regard to our
Accountability status, Monty Tech has made "Substantial Progress Toward Meeting our Targets."
Monty Tech is committed to providing students with rigorous STEM learning opportunities, and so in
recent years, the curriculum has been expanded to include Advanced Placement Programs (two English
courses, two mathematics courses, two science courses, and one computer science course) and teachers
have participated in meaningful, high-quality professional development which has enabled us to
successfully implement two Project Lead the Way biomedical courses.
The school is in its 7th year of administering Advanced Placement exams and students enrolled in AP
courses continue to improve their performance. In the spring of 2019,68 out of 111 students (61%)
earned qualifying scores -the highest
number we've ever had.
Of these
students 79 out of 146(54%) earned
% of Total AP Students with Scores 3+
qualifying scores -the highest number
we've ever had.
This year, more than half of the students
who tested in the following subjects
received qualifying scores: AP Computer
Science
Principles,
AP Literature &
Composition, AP Environmental Science,
and AP Language & Composition.
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
61%
53%
44%
48%
27%
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
139
===PAGE 142===
MT AP Courses
MT AP Student Enrollment
Students with Qualifying
Scores
AP Test Takers
Total # of Qualifying
Exams
Total # of AP Exams
(SY14-15)
3
99
(SY15-16)
5
188
(SY16-17)
6
151
(SY17-18)
7
135
(SY18-19)
7
157
47(53%)
89
39 (27%)
53 (44%)
46 (48%)
68 (61%)
145
120
95
53 (46%)
44 (24%)
65 (44%)
58(43%)
116
187
148
134
111
79 (54%)
146
Vocational Projects in the District Communities
Unlike students in traditional, comprehensive high schools, students at Monty Tech are asked to put
their education into practice on a daily basis. Students across the twenty-one different vocational-
technical education programs are building homes, reconstructing damaged properties, repairing service
vehicles, making walkways more accessible, and performing countless community services.
The 2018-2019 school year was a busy one for our vocational educators, as each trade aimed to provide
practical, hands- on learning experiences for our students, while helping to improve each of the eighteen
member communities.
Auto Body Collision Repair Technology: The Monty Tech Auto Body shop benefited from new
instructional equipment this year. A new silicon bronze MIG welder was added to the program, so that
students continue to be trained in the industry's latest technologies. The shop floor was coated with a
new epoxy flooring, and a new lift was installed and relocated to replace the old lift, updating and
enhancing the instructional space. Three new Vacuum sanders were installed to keep the dust in the
shop down, and four new shop benches were installed. In addition to the 80+ community service
projects completed last year, students and instructors painted a sign for Hubbardston Council on Aging,
as well as one of Monty Tech's vans. All Seniors received their EPA 6 H Certificate, I-Car Pro Level 1
in Refinishing and Non- Structural Repair Certification, and a SEM Plastic Repair Certificate.
Seniors and two Juniors earned co-op placements, and one Senior traveled to Louisville, KY, competing
in the SkillsUSA national competition in June 2018. A 2017 graduate of the program traveled to Russia
to compete in the SkillsUSA World competition, where he placed an impressive 14t'h
(Total student
enrollment: 63)
Automotive Technology: As in past years, the Monty Tech Automotive Technology program continues
to service a variety of vehicles. Over 400 vehicles were serviced and repaired during the 2018-2019
school year, including vehicles brought in by faculty, staff, public, school and students. Students
pertormed repairs that will prepare them for the workplace, such as timing belts, electronic diagnostics,
intake manifold gaskets, brake work and various other technical repairs. The program was awarded
Nine students earned co-op placements throughout the school year, which is a testament to the strength
of the program. The Monty Tech Automotive Technology program continues to be the area's premier
workforce pipeline for automotive dealerships and businesses.
140
===PAGE 143===
earned a financial literacy certificate. As a member of the Massachusetts Schools Bank Association
through the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, Monty Tech students are able to compete in the Banking
Bowl and Marketing Competitions. Workers Credit Union has also purchased a conference table, 6
chairs, and 2 new white boards to support the program. Instructors, in collaboration with their post-
secondary colleagues, continue to refine and develop new articulation agreements. These agreements
with Mount Wachusett Community College and Keene State College, will provide qualified students
with college credits at no cost to the student. Students are eligible to receive 24 credits from Mount
Wachusett Community College and 12 credits from Keene State. Opportunities to demonstrate customer
service, cash handling, and accounting skills are ever-present as the Business Technology students
successfully operate an in-house retail location, The Gear House School Store, and the Monty Tech
Greenhouse. Eleven Seniors and four Juniors were out on co-op placements during the 2018-2019
school year. (Total student enrollment: 80)
Cabinetmaking: Students and instructors in the school's Cabinetmaking program continue to spent time
during the 2018-2019 school year manufacturing, assembling and installing maple benches for
the Veterinary Science training center. Sophomore students crafted 400 pine beverage caddy's for the
2019 Superintendent's Dinner. Using reclaimed maple trees cut from the site of the new science wing:
Cabinetmaking students fabricated furniture for Mount Wachusett Community College. Students and
instructors also completed projects throughout the school and surrounding communities, to include:
work tables and cabinet storage units for Graphic Communications, a large quilt display cabinet and
storage for the Ashby Public Library, and custom built oak cabinets for CAD/Drafting & Design. To
support a recent graduate who now attends WPI, students cut out multiple pieces on the CNC, which
will be used in a solar decathlon project in Morocco. A total of 18 students (11 seniors and 7 juniors)
earned co-op placements; making this the highest number of students out on Co-op in the program's
history. (Total student enrollment: 66)
CAD/Drafting & Design: The Monty Tech CAD/Drafting & Design program is increasingly busy each
year with outside projects, completing miscellaneous signs and banners for community sports events,
craft fairs, and non-profit events. Students also played an instrumental role in 2019 Superintendent's
Dinner, designing the layout and decor for this annual fundraising event, and ended the year by
designing and installing signage throughout the building for the 2019 graduation exercises. A total of
four students (one junior and three seniors) were on Co-op placements, working and learning in area
businesses. Four students advanced to the SkillsUSA States competition, representing the program
well. With funds awarded from the FY20 Skills Capital Grant, instructors created an all-new
instructional space. The new fabrication lab includes equipment to support lessons in 3D printing, 3D
scanning, Injection Molding, CNC work and laser cutting. Over the course of the 2018-2019 school
year, CAD/Drafting & Design students achieved over 100 industry-recognized certifications in
AutoCAD, Inventor, Revit, and Solidworks. 2018-2019 was the most successful year for certifications
due to the introduction of SolidProfessor, an online curriculum that was made possible by Perkins grant
funding. (Total student enrollment: 58)
Cosmetology: The Monty Tech Cosmetology program students and instructors provided numerous
community services, including basic manicures to the residents at Heywood Wakefield
Commons. Seniors and Juniors volunteered to be elves for the Wreaths Across America convoy
celebration, where they did face painting, braids, and nail polish applications.
141
===PAGE 144===
Monday through Friday. In addition to operating a full-service restaurant and bakery, serving 90-
120 patrons daily, culinary students showcase their talents throughout the year, providing
outstanding service at events that include the following: two Program Advisory Committee dinner
meetings, four Monty Tech Foundation breakfasts, Monty Tech's Retirees holiday luncheon, a
graduation reception, the Women in Technology event, Principal and Counselors' Day, the Monty
Tech homecoming dance, MAVA meetings, all School Committee meetings and sub-committee
meetings, the Gardner AARP luncheon and the MHCC volunteer luncheon. Community service
opportunities for students are always a highlight, and this year our students prepared meals for Our
Father's House (Fitchburg), and NEADS (Princeton) events. Students and instructors also prepared
and donated pastry and baked goods to the House of Peace and Education in Gardner. The
program's greatest undertaking is always the Annual Superintendent's Dinner scholarship
fundraiser, during which students work side-by-side with some of the area's finest chefs, preparing
a six-course dinner with extensive hors d'oeuvres for more than three hundred guests. Culinary Arts
students value industry-recognized credentials, and were proud to earn Allergen Awareness and
ServSafe Certifications. Senior students also competed in the SkillsUSA Meal Ready to eat
challenge at the Framingham Armory. (Total student enrollment: 95)
Dental Assisting: A critical component of the Monty Tech Dental Assisting curriculum is the
preparation for the Dental Assisting National Board certification exams. In 2018-2019, every
sophomore passed the DANB Infection Control exam, and every senior passed the DANB
Radiology exam. All Seniors exposed 2 full mouth series on patients at their externship sites to
meet the new requirements for the state. Two Seniors earned co-op placements, while the
remaining 13 students participated in affiliation/externship experiences in area dental clinics and
offices. Students and instructors welcomed Community Health Connections, a school-based dental
hygiene program, and provided dental services to more than 60 students in need. Students were
given valuable hands-on experience, assisting the staff from CHC during each dental procedure
performed. Sophomore students provided dental education to students at Winchendon Memorial
Elementary School and Meetinghouse Elementary School in Westminster, while four juniors
assisted with the Kid Seal Program at Quinsigamond Community College. A new vacuum pump,
which can be used by all four dental chairs, was purchased, as well as all new CPR manikins with
feedback devices. (Total student enrollment: 61)
Early Childhood Education: Students and instructors in the Monty Tech Early Childhood Education
program are committed to community service activities, and the 2018-2019 school year was no
exception. In addition to studying early education and care concepts, students worked
collaboratively to raise funds for Lucy's Love Bus, an agency that provides grants for children with
cancer that are not covered by health insurance, as well as as SkillsUSA Change for Children. They
provided gifts for children at Cleghorn Neighborhood Center, and organized a "Diaper Drive" for
the Gardner VNA Diaper Pantry, which resulted in more than 1,200 diapers being collected and
delivered to this important community service agency. Twelve outstanding program graduates
earned their CDA (Child Development Associate) credential. The Monty Tech Child Care Center
continues to operate at full capacity, providing meaningful hands-on learning opportunities for all
students in the Early Childhood Education program. (Total student enrollment: 60)
142
===PAGE 145===
remodeled to improve shop tool use and organization, bringing the most utilized tools together.
Nine seniors and four juniors earned Co-op placements. (Total student enrollment: 83)
Engineering Technology: The Engineering Technology program at Monty Tech is a rigorous
program, infused with nationally certified curriculum provided by Project Lead the Way, and
countless hands-on learning opportunities that provide students with opportunities to demonstrate
creativity, make connections with prior learning, and earn college credits. In addition, all freshmen
completed the OSHA 10-hour General Industry training. Three Seniors earned Co-op placements.
New technology was added to the training program, including a Xerox Versalink C7020
multifunction color printer, three Amatrol table top mechtronics learning systems with pegasus
robot, one Fanuc LR Mate 200ID/4S robot, one Festo MPS 203 Mechtronics system, and one
StratasysF270 3D printer. (Total student enrollment: 51)
Graphic Communications: Throughout the 2018-2019 school year, the students in Monty Tech's
Graphic Communications shop produced numerous projects for our district cities and towns, and a
variety of non-profit organizations in the district.
In total, students successfully produced
approximately 400 orders, saving cities, towns and non-profit organizations more than $200,000.
The program welcomed 22 freshmen students into a shop that was recently remodeled, and
enhanced with new technology to include a printmaster press, a perfect binding machine, dye
sublimation and all new Xerox copiers for our copy center. Three motivated students pursued and
earned Co-op placements.
Of the 21 talented seniors who graduated from the Graphic
Communication program, 14 were accepted into colleges/universities and 8 chose to enter the
workforce in related careers. (Total student enrollment: 86)
Health Occupations: The Health Occupations program at Monty Tech continues to educate a large
number of students, providing a rigorous education grounded in current medical knowledge and
practice. A unique collaboration with Mount Wachusett Community College enables Senior
students to participate in an Emergency Medical Technician training program, earning eight college
credits at no cost; 13 Seniors completed the EMT Course in 2018-2019. In addition, 12 seniors
earned co-op placements, and 17 seniors received their National Clinical Medical Assistant
certificate. Every junior enrolled in the Health Occupations program earned CPR certification; 24
juniors received their nursing assistant certificate, as well as a certificate in "A Habilitation
Training Curriculum" from the Alzheimer's Association. Students and instructors are particularly
invested in community service, and as a result, students hand-made veteran's day cards and sent
them to the Bedford VA Hospital, bought gifts and clothing for the Fitchburg Community
Christmas party, hosted an American Red Cross Blood drive, and held a "Baby Shower" benefiting
Battered Women's Resources, Inc. (Total student enrollment: 106)
House Carpentry: Monty Tech's House Carpentry program supported a number of community
organizations during the 2018-2019 school year, by building and installing two walls in Graphic
Communications, stripping and re-roofing a section of the roof at Princeton Town Hall, building a
carriage house for NEADS in Princeton, building a lean-to roof at Hubbardston DPW to cover sand
and salt, rebuilding the ceiling in the weight room in the gym, and expanding the bathroom at the
Lunenburg Town Hall. Students also handcrafted countless Adirondack chairs for charitable
donations.
143
===PAGE 146===
COLLILALS ANYT
New boiler and furnace lab space was completed, providing students with additional "hands-on"
learning experiences while remaining in shop. The tool crib was also reconfigured, and a new shop
position was created, Service & Parts Manager, to reflect the requirements in the industry. Students
working as the shop managers are tasked with keeping accurate records of all material being used in
shop and recording them on a shared google document. New welding stations are up and running, an
effort made possible by the school's Electrical, Welding, and the Auto Body Collision shops.
Electrical wired everything including the state of the art variable speed exhaust fan. Welding built the
benches and installed the exhaust hood, and Auto Body painted the work stations. The outside rack for
the air conditioners is now complete and being used, and three new stations for furnaces, air
conditioning split systems and the new oil supply tank are securely maintained in that space. Students
earned National EPA Certification for refrigerant recovery, and a total of ten students (six seniors and
nur ments) were placed in area businesses through the school's popular co-op program. Total student
Information Technology: The Information Technology program continues to offer students more
industry-recognized certificates than any other program at Monty Tech. It is an accomplishment our
instructors are so proud of, as these certifications affirm the technical skill proficiency needed for so
many entry-level careers in networking and information technology. All Freshmen completed the
OSHA 10-hour General Industry training and VEX Robot Certification. All Sophomores passed the
IC3 Certificate Exam for basic computer hardware, software, and internet knowledge and skills, as well
as the Test-out PC Pro Certificate exam, the Cisco IT Essential course for computer repair and
maintenance, and the Introduction to Networking course. One sophomore, one junior, and one Senior
passed the COMPTIA At exam. All Juniors sat for the CIW Advanced HTML5 & CSS3 Certification
exams in June, in addition to the Cyber Security Operations Final Exam. Seniors completed the
Python Programming course and participated in the AP Computer Science Principles course, which
resulted in nine students earning qualifying scores. Four students earned co-op placements, applying
their technical skills in area businesses. In total, more than 400 hours of community tech support were
completed, which involved hardware and software troubleshooting on desktops, laptops, printers, and
mobile devices. (Total student enrollment: 41)
Machine Technology: Throughout the 2018-2019 school year, instructors were able to train Machine
Technology students in precision measurement, and granted more than 300 certifications to students
accordingly. All new CNC and new cutter technology was used, and a new print reading curriculum
was introduced. All freshmen received their OSHA 10-hour general industry certification, while all
seniors and six juniors earned co-op placements, working and learning in area machine shops.
Machine Technology students and instructors also completed a number of outside projects, which
included engraving school plaques, and assisting Athol High School with teaching and certifying
students in NC3 Precision Measuring Instruments. (Total student enrollment: 45)
Masonry: The talents of Monty Tech Masonry students are on display throughout the district, as
projects that were completed this year to include: installation of a concrete walk for the LUK
Organization, stone veneer inside the offices at NEADS, stone veneer and paver sidewalk at the garage
at Monty Tech, repairing a marble floor in the mausoleum at Fitchburg's Forest Hill Cemetery, repair
of stone steps at the gazebo on Fitchburg's Upper Common, installation of a handicap ramp at Saima
Park, as well as several projects around the school. Students continued to maintain the OSHA silica
standard, in a program that operates in compliance with trade regulations. The Masonry program also
benefitted from new equipment, dust free saws and grinders.
144
===PAGE 147===
Town of Lunenburg, making that space ADA compliant for those attended important town meetings.
Students and staff spent time in Winchendon, installing water filters at Memorial, and replacing water
coolers at Murdock, Memorial and Toy Town Elementary. A bathtub was replaced with a shower stall
issues were attended to throughout the building. Eight seniors and one junior participated in the co-op
program. One Senior received the 2019 Vocational Tech Plumbing All Star Award given by the
Plumbing, Heating,
and Cooling Contractors Association of Massachusetts, while another
recognized by the Central Mass Plumbing & Gas Inspectors Association - awards that will help these
talented graduates as they pursue advanced training in the field. (Total student enrollment: 71)
Veterinary Science: 2018-2019 marked a very special year for the school's newest vocational training
program, veterinary Science. Students and instructors were moved in to the new training center, taking
every advantage the new 7,500 sq. ft. state-of-the-art facility could provide. After another successful
exploratory program, 22 students were accepted into the program and are proud to be Monty Tech's 2nd
class of Veterinary Science students. All freshmen completed the OSHA 10-hour healthcare training,
and spent the second semester engaged in introductory animal science lessons, as well as a number of
valuable field trips to support the new curriculum, with trips to: UMASS Amherst to study Equine
Reproduction Medicine, and Lilac Hedge Farm and Jordan's Dairy to observe agricultural production
facilities in Massachusetts. Sophomores worked through some very challenging curriculum, covering
units in client services, hospital management, anatomy, pathology and laboratory procedures. They
visited Flying High Farm in Lunenburg to work with horses and complete the program's large animal
requirements, and also toured Idexx laboratories in North Grafton, MA to observe all aspects of clinical
All sophomores gained certification in Fear Free Handling, an industry recognized
achievement which will open doors for them throughout the area. (Total student enrollment: 44)
Welding/Metal Fabrication: The 2018-2019 school year brought new equipment - a 4 ft Squaring Shear
- to the students in the school's Welding/Metal Fabrication program.
Numerous projects were
completed by talented students,
more than fifty requests for individual projects from
community members residing in the school's sending district.
All freshmen students successfully
completed the OSHA 10-hour General Industry training, and instructors implemented new online
curriculum for the Junior related theory class. Seniors competed in the Notch Mechanical pipe welding
competition, and eight upperclassmen (four seniors and four juniors) were placed in area shops,
working and learning from trade professionals who support the school's co-op program. (Total student
enrollment: 57)
Co-operative Education and Student Placement
The Cooperative Education Program is an extension of the student's technical education that combines
instruction with on-the-job-training. The Co-op Program
opportunity to further develop academic, technical and employability skills in an industry work
environment. All students are eligible to participate in Co-op Program, provided they satisfy state and
school grade, attendance and performance requirements. All Co-op students have completed the OSHA
recognized Career Safe online health and safety course.
The Cooperative Education Program is beneficial for both student and employer. For the student, it is a
chance to gain on-the-job training that improves both their technical and employability skills.
Additionally, making industry connections enhances post-graduate employment opportunities. The Co-
op Program allows students to earn while they learn.
145
===PAGE 148===
104
100
90
92 91
83
79
80
76.
# 2015-2016
: 2016-2017
= 2017-2018
67
64
61
60
56.
45
40
20
0
September
October
December
February
May
Employer benefits include addressing workforce needs in an efficient manner. Co-op students provide a pool
of temporary and potential full-time employees who are already trained, thus reducing employment training costs. Co-op
work hours may be tailored to suit the needs of partnering employers. During the 2018-2019 school year, approximately
22.4% of qualified students (juniors and seniors) earned Co-op placements, working, learning and applying their
technical skills related in area businesses.
Student Support Services
During the 2018-2019 school year, Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District
provided special services to approximately three hundred students - measuring progress of over two
hundred students on Individual Education Plans (IEPs) and just under one hundred students adhering to
individualized Section 504 plans. While the Student Support Services (SSS) Department encompasses
special education, the department provides support and is available to all Monty Tech students.
The department includes a full-time nursing staff that administers medications, performs state-mandated
health screening exams, and provides when necessary, health information to the special education team
for a student's IEP meeting.
The department benefits from a full-time school social worker that
participates in departmental meetings and assists students who have needs concerning finances, family
issues, homelessness, maternity, health issues, and proper food and clothing. The school is also
fortunate to have on staff a full-time psychologist, whose role it is to evaluate all students referred for an
initial evaluation or who require a three-year re-evaluation. In addition, we have a full-time speech
language pathologist, who is available to assist students with disabilities, assess these students and
consult with teachers. Our students also have access to the services of a full-time adjustment counselor
and part-time school psychologist. All of these individuals are available for scheduled counseling
sessions, mental health emergency treatment, medical/mental health re-entry and transition support
services, as well as crisis intervention.
The school's Director of Student Support Services oversees the District's Special Education Program,
which is reviewed annually in May, in accordance with regulatory requirements. The comprehensive
review and evaluation are done in collaboration with the Parent Advisory Council, and the results of the
evaluation are used to improve the special education procedures and programs in place at Montachusett
Regional Vocational Technical School.
146
===PAGE 149===
and supports for instructors. The District's Instructional Technologist and four academic instructors
attended the annual Schoology Conterence, with the goal of identifying new solutions, technologies, and
best practices that will enhance the school's technology-driven approach to education.
To support these expanded technology needs, Monty Tech successfully completed a number of necessary
infrastructure upgrades, using federal e-rate dollars totaling $116,511. The school's external bandwidth
speeds have been increased to 2.5 GB and internal bandwidth to 10GB to better ensure continued
connectivity and speeds appropriate with a high-use learning community.
Marine Corps JROTC
The Monty Tech Marine Corps Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (MCJROTC) had a productive
2018-2019 school year. The Cadet Corps stood a formal Inspector General inspection and achieved a
"Mission Ready" grade, and due to outstanding performance throughout the year, Monty Tech's Marine
Corps Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps program was designated as a Marine Corps Honor
School. Selection for the Marine Corps Honor School means that the school's Marine Corps JROTC
program was in the top 15% of the 68 other programs in Region 1. Region 1 includes schools from the
mid-Atlantic and Northeast U.S. The selection is based on several criteria including:
• Inspector General's inspection results
• Number of cadets in the program
• Number of community service hours conducted
• Number of public affairs events attended by cadets
• Number of academic awards presented to cadets
• Participation in drill team competitions, marksmanship competitions, physical fitness competitions,
and field trips that support the growth and development of the cadet
Because of this distinction, Monty Tech MJROTC instructors are allowed to nominate up to six cadets
to each of the three service academies - U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Military Academy and U.S. Air
Force Academy. This is the 8* time the program has earned this distinction since 2007.
The Monty Tech JROTC Cadet Corps was honored to once again host the Wreaths Across America
Convoy with a remembrance ceremony as it made its way down to Arlington National Cemetery.
The Cyber Security Team received national recognition by securing a place to compete in the Air Force
Association's National Cyber Security Competition held in Baltimore, MD, for the ninth consecutive
yesh placed rapetition field began with over 1900 hundred teams battling for just 13 seats, and Monty
in the highly competitive field in the all service division.
The 2018-2019 Corps of Cadets completed over 9,600 hours of community service, conducting a major
food drive with United Way, completing a 10 mile March A Thon that raised $21,000 in support of
NEADS, and spending five weekends working with the local Salvation Army helping to raise over
$21,000 for needy families. The Monty Tech Cadet Corps provided 31 Color Guards for local civic and
veteran ceremonies, and
supported 19 community service projects throughout North Central
Massachusetts.
Through civic engagement and veteran affiliation, our Cadets received more than
$180,000 dollars in scholarships.
147
===PAGE 150===
TY ALLA
record, led by Rubelsi Moran who had 22 goals and 8 assists on the season. The young JV Boys team
was 4 - 5 - 2, and looks to have a promising future. The Varsity Girls Soccer team finished at 7 - 9 - 2
missing the playoffs by only one win. The JV Girls Soccer team was 9 - 4 - 1 and will help the varsity
in the future years. The Varsity Field Hockey team was 8 - 10, while the JV Field Hockey team
finished with a 4 - 4 - 1 record, with all freshmen and sophomores on the roster. The Varsity Golf
team struggled a bit, but finished with a 4 - 8 - 1 record. The JV golf players continued to work on their
game and participated in some JV tournaments and some official matches. The Varsity Girls Volleyball
team finished at 4 - 16, while the JV Girls were 8 - 7. The Varsity Boys Cross Country team was 8 - 1,
finishing an impressive 2° place in the Colonial Athletic League. Unfortunately, the Girls Cross
country program could not recruit enough girls to compete as a team, but the two female seniors
competed with the boys throughout the season.
The Boys Varsity Basketball team finished with a 5 - 15 record; the JV team finished with a record of 7
- 11 and looks forward to sending some talented players to the Varsity team next year. The Varsity
Girls Basketball team had the best campaign in school history, finishing with an impressive 17-3
record and winning the Colonial Athletic League Championship. They continued the season, winning
the State Vocational Tournament, beating Bay Path, 65 - 37 and Blackstone Valley Tech 51 - 40 in the
Championship game. They won three straight games in the Central Mass Division IV tournament over
Quaboag, 64 - 59, Douglas, 62 - 35 and Blackstone Valley Tech 61 - 44, and defeated Maynard in the
Finals, winning the first District Championship for girls basketball 56-49. They moved on to the State
Tournament where they played Hopkins Academy in the Semi-Finals, losing 55 - 48. Two seniors,
Erica Regan and Emily St. Thomas each reached 1000 points for their career in early February. Emily
now holds the school record for points. The JV Girls also enjoyed a strong season, finishing 15 - 3, and
hope sto see some strong players advance to the Varsity level next year. The Wrestling team competed
in a number of tournaments, where standout athlete Isiac Paulino won 40 matches; as a freshman he is
well on his way to 100 career wins. The Boys Indoor Track and Field team was 3 - 5 and the Girls
team 0-8 as they look to improve for the spring season. The Varsity Boys Ice Hockey team was 6 - 10
- 4, and the Girls Ice Hockey team continues to improve each year, graduating only 2 players and
expecting at least five to return.
Due to poor field conditions the baseball teams have been unable to play their home games at Monty
Tech, but have continued to represent the District well. The Varsity Baseball team was 9 - 11,
qualifying for the post season tournament by winning the CAL Small School division. They lost to
Uxbridge 3-0 in a hard fought game.
The JV team finished the season with a record of 5 - 7 and the
Freshmen with a record of 2 - 5. The Varsity Softball team continues to excel, finishing 2id in the
Colonial Athletic League with a record of 14 - 6 in the regular season, and winning the first two games
in the Districts to advance to the District Semi-Finals. The talented team beat AMSA, 12 - 6 and
Narragansett 10 - 6 before losing to Millbury 12 - 2. The JV Girls Softball team was also impressive,
finishing 9 - 4 on the season, and should provide some talented players to future teams. Boys Varsity
Lacrosse finished with a 5 - 13 record and the JV played hard throughout the season. The Varsity Girls
Lacrosse team was 7 - 12, an improvement over last year and finished 3d in the Colonial Athletic
league, while the JV team finished with an outstanding record of 14 - 3. The Boys and Girls Track &
Field teams both saw an increase in participation, and finished strong with records of 4 - 5 (boys) and 4
- 9 (girls).
Congratulations to the Outstanding Male and Female athletes for 2018-2019, Connor Dandy and Cassie
Skinner.
148
===PAGE 151===
small business partnerships, and the number and quality of personal enrichment classes - sewing,
knitting, acrylic painting and glass fusing, to name a few. Catalog distribution has more than doubled,
from 80,000 to 170,000 copies, and the relatively new online registration feature continues to add value
to our students and instructors.
In Spring 2019, we offered an all-new Oil Burner Technician certification prep course. Students in the
newly established the 120- hour program trained on new boilers and burners, and upon completion
earned the opportunity to sit for the oil burner technician state licensing exam. This course provides our
community members with a high quality, affordable entry into a viable career pathway. We have also
added an EPA 608 certification course to benefit students in the HVAC industry.
Our medical course offerings now include Pharmacy Technician, Certified Medical Billing and Coding,
EKG, Phlebotomy, Certified Nurse Aide, Patient Care Tech, and Medical Terminology.
The continued success and sustainability of an adult education program is based on hiring quality instructo
rs and meeting the needs of the community and supporting workforce development. Our goals in the
coming year include identifying additional training opportunities to meet the needs of the regional
workforce, provide affordable and meaningful training opportunities to our nontraditional student
population, and expanding programming to include off-site, daytime training opportunities across the
Practical Nursing Program
The Monty Tech Practical Nursing Program is designed to prepare graduates to practice safely and
ethically in a caring manner for patients who are experiencing common variations in health status in
diverse health care settings.
On June 27, 2019 a graduating class of 28 students completed the Practical Nursing Program and
entered the nursing profession. The class achieved a pass rate of 96, with 27 of the 28 graduates
passing the NCLEX-PN exam (National Council Licensure Examination for Practical Nurses). One
graduate will pursue the examination in the coming months.
district as Licensed Practical Nurses in various health care settings, such as long-term care, sub-acute
care, mental health/ substance abuse facilities, physician's offices and correctional medicine.
The Monty Tech Practical Nursing Program continues to strengthen the "LPN to BSN (Bachelor of
Science in Nursing) Bridge" relationship with Fitchburg State University: Several 2019 graduates are
pursuing seats in the LPN to BSN program at FSU and will be continuing their education to the
Bachelors in Nursing. Many class applicants cited their attraction to Monty Tech as the opportunity to
complete a ten-month accelerated program and then bridge to Fitchburg State University. In the 5-year
history of the Bridge Program, all of Monty Tech's Practical Nursing graduates reaching graduation at
FSU have passed their RNNCLEX exam.
Monty Tech Practical Nursing students are now completing patient scenarios in the Sim Lab on a
weekly basis in Terms 2, 3, and 4. The Faculty Sim team has implemented National League of Nursing
(NLN) patient scenarios and authored several others consistent with our curriculum frameworks, and
have also utilized the Sim lab setting to instruct students in developing nursing skills that they may not
be experiencing in the clinical setting.
149
===PAGE 152===
Substance abuse and the mental health setting job opportunities have increased with more funding being
provided to combat the opiate crisis. Having a clinical rotation at AdCare Hospital in Worcester, and
pertorming simulation scenarios involving substance abuse clients, has better prepared our graduates to
work in a substance abuse clinical setting, as well.
We are expecting an accreditation visit from the Massachusetts Board of Registration in Nursing this
year. Our goals include stabilization of faculty positions, securing a certified Simulation Instructor, and
pursuance of ACEN (Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing) or other accreditation status
to more accurately reflect the changing environment of nursing education.
Looking Ahead
While the Montachusett Regional Vocational Technical School District educational community is
certainly proud of the achievements of our talented students, faculty, and staff, we continue to have an eye
toward the future, always committed to improving our vocational and academic programming,
strengthening key partnerships,
and maintaining facilities that contribute to student success and
achievement. As we look ahead, there are a number of programs and initiatives that we expect will have
a positive impact on our school and students for years to come.
Expand Health Occupations program to include vital diagnostics: Monty Tech was awarded a generous
$385,000 Skills Capital Grant, a portion of which will benefit the staff and students of the Health
Uccupations program. To better prepare our graduates for a variety of careers in the health sector, the
school will purchase new diagnostic equipment to train students in the proper procedures for testing for
cholesterol, blood sugar, lead, lung volume, and more. In addition, the program will receive state-of-the
-art virtual dissection technology, bringing lessons in anatomy and physiology to new heights. This
equipment, provided by Anatomage and most often found on college campuses, is expected to engage
students and bring
a deeper level of knowledge and understanding to students as they explore the
human body and its complex systems.
Celebrate the completion of an all-new Automotive Technology simulation lab: The $385,000 Skills
Capital Grant award will also fund an all-new Automotive Technology simulation lab, which will
include the latest technology in trainers and simulators aligned with NATEF standards.
At Monty
Tech, students
are presented with countless opportunities to earn industry-recognized credentials.
These certifications are not only a testament to the skills they have developed while enrolled at Monty
Tech, but also will ensure our graduates are more employable upon graduation. To that end, the Monty
Tech
Automotive Technology instructors have proposed adding NC3 Automotive Diagnostic
Certifications to the program.
In partnership with Snap On Tools, Monty Tech will now present
students with a more sophisticated technical training program and opportunities to earn all-new
diagnostic credentials, validating their experience and ability to diagnose and service today's computer-
controlled vehicles. In addition, the program will also receive new automotive lifts, floor jacks, engine
stands, chargers and an air table, to ensure students are trained on equipment that will prepare them for
careers in the automotive industry.
Roll out affordable veterinary care services in the school's new veterinary clinic: A project more than 7
years in the making, the Monty Tech Veterinary Clinic is now open, providing affordable veterinary
care to pets across the region. The rollout of services continues throughout the 2019-2020 school year,
with routine wellness care visits, affordable medications and vaccinations, diagnostic services, primary
care surgical services, stable urgent care, compassionate end of life care, and dentistry.
150
===PAGE 153===
policies, and procedures. Our students continue to benefit from the broad scope of their experiences and
varying perspectives, and we are thankful to the following members of the 20121 School
Committee for their outstanding service.
Brian J. Walker, Fitchburg
Chair
Diane Swenson, Ashburnham
Vice Chair
Julie Marynok
Secretary
Norman J. LeBlanc
District Treasurer
Peter Capone, Ashby
Toni L. Phillips, Athol
Whitney Marshall, Barre
Dr. Robert Babineau, Fitchburg
Dr. Ronald Tourigny, Fitchburg
Melanie Weeks, Fitchburg
Matthew Vance, Gardner
James S. Boone, Gardner
Amy Morton, Harvard
James Cournoyer, Holden
Kathleen Airoldi, Hubbardston
Barbara Reynolds, Lunenburg
Edward Simms, Petersham
Eric Olson, Phillipston
John P. Mollica, Princeton
Mary C. Barclay, Royalston
William Brassard, Sterling
John Columbus, Templeton
Ross Barber, Westminster
Dr. Maureen Ward, Winchendon
151
===PAGE 154===

===PAGE 155===
TOWN CLERK
153
===PAGE 156===

===PAGE 157===
SI
INC
ANNUAL TOWN MEETING
MAY 4, 2019
The Moderator called the Annual Town Meeting to order at 9:05 a.m. in the Lunenburg Middle
High School auditorium, 1079 Massachusetts Avenue and declared that the warrant was
properly served. We pledged allegiance to the flag, the Moderator thanked all elected and
appointed officials and recognized Mr. McQuaid who led us in thanking retiring Selectman
Jamie Toale for his service to the Town. Robert Bowen named Deputy Assistant Moderator by
the Moderator, several announcements were made including ground rules for proceeding with
the meeting and at 9:17 a.m. action was taken on Article 1.
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to hear and/or accept the regular written reports of
the Town Officers and Committees; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by
Board of Selectmen) (Board of Selectmen recommends approval, Finance Committee - no
recommendation) Article 1 was PASSED OVER. Already accepted the regular written reports
of the Town Officers and Committees.
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to amend the general by-laws of Town to
establish and authorize revolving funds for use by certain town departments, boards,
committees, agencies or officers under Massachusetts general Laws Chapter 44, Section 53E ½,
by deleting the Table in Section 135-8.D and substituting the following Table therefor; or take
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen
recommends approval, Finance Committee - no recommendation) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY
as follows:
155
===PAGE 158===
Ambulance
Billing
Timber Rights
School
Custodial
Special Details
Green Thumb
Library
Revolving
Council on
Aging/MART
Revolving
Stormwater
Task
Force
Revolving
Electrical, Gas,
Plumbing
Inspector
Revolving
Technology
Revolving
Fire Department
Conservation
Commission
School Committee
School Committee
Library Trustees
Council on
Aging/COA Director
Stormwater
Task
Force/DPW Director
Building Department
Town Manager, IT
Director, and Land
Use Director
5% of ambulance
services and 100% of
Advanced Life Support
services
Proceeds
of Timber
Rights
Charges/Feesfor
Outside Details
Payments to Third Party Billing
Company and Advanced Life
Support companies
Acquisition/Improvement
of
Conservation
Land
and
associated costs
Payment
of
Special
Details for Outside Functions
Sales of Items from
Green Thumb Program
Expenses related to the
Operation of the Green Thumb
Program
Library Fines, Penalties,
Purchase of Library and
Donations & Bequests
Information
Materials,
Document Information, and
Electronic Data Delivery
MART
Program
Dispatch,
Operation,
Reimbursements
and
Maintenance
User Fees
Keeping
and
Record
Elderly
Transportation Program
Sale of Rain Barrels and
Purchase of additional Rain
Composting Bins
Barrels/Composting Bins
of the fees
collected from wiring
inspections, 80% of fees
plumbing
Payment of all charges and fees
related to electrical, plumbing,
and gas inspections
associated
electronic permitting
Payment of software
equipment related to electronic
156
None
None
None
None
None
None
None
None
None
Fiscal Year
2019 and
subsequent
years
Fiscal Year
2019
and
subsequent
years
Fiscal Year
2019
and
subsequent
years
Fiscal Year
2019
and
subsequent
years
Fiscal Year
2019
and
subsequent
years
Fiscal Year
2019
and
subsequent
years
Fiscal Year
2019
and
subsequent
years
Fiscal Year
2019
and
subsequent
years
Fiscal Year
2019
and
subsequent
years
===PAGE 159===
Limit
Ambulance Billing
Timber Rights
School Custodial Special Details
$100,000
$10,000
$13,000
Green Thumb
$5,000
Library Revolving
$12,000
Council on Aging/MART Revolving $45,000
Stormwater Task Force
$5,000
Electrical, Gas, Plumbing Inspector
$46,000
Technology
$30,000
ARTICLE 4. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money for payment of prior year expenses; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Finance Director) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee
recommend approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer the sum of $500.00 from Free
Cash for payment of prior year expenses.
ARTICLE 5. To see if the Town will vote to transfer from available funds, all sums of
money necessary to amend the amounts voted for the Town's FY 2019 Budget, under Article 7
of the May 5, 2018 Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 13, 2018 Special
Town Meeting; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
(Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY
to transfer from Line 13/Reserve Fund, the sum of $75,000.00; transfer from Line 75/
Veteran's Benefits, the sum of $5,286.00; and to transfer to Line 66/Vehicle Maintenance
- Fire Department, the sum of $15,631.00; and to transfer to Line 70/Snow Removal, the
sum of $64,655.00; to amend the amounts voted under Article 7 of the May 5, 2018
Annual Town Meeting and Article 1 of the November 13, 2018 Special Town Meeting.
157
===PAGE 160===
Meeting the sum of $1,780.00; transfer from Article 6 of the 5/5/18 Annual Town Meeting
the sum of $139,938.07; transfer from Article 14 of the 5/7/16 Annual Town Meeting the
sum of $21.93; and transfer from the Premium Reserved for Capital fund the sum of
$6,350.49 for a total appropriation of $1,684,100.00 to fund the FY20 Capital Plan, as
follows:
Priority #
CIP#
1 FD18-01
2 PD17-01-A
3 PD17-01-B
4 FD16-15
5 LPS19-01
6 GG19-01
7 LPS16-19-B
8 FM17-108
9 PD18-02
10 GG19-02
11 FD17-02
12FM16-15
13 FM19-01
14 FM16-01
Dept.
Fire
Police
Police
Fire
Schools
Town Clerk
Schools
DPW
Police
Planning
Fire
DPW
DPW
DPW
Project Name
Vital Sign Airway Monitors
Police Vehicle, 1 marked
Police Vehicle, 1 unmarked replacement
Engine 4 Replacement (1995)
PRI/THES Wifi Upgrade
Voting Machines
THMS, Asbestos Abatement/ Ceiling Replacement
Fuel Tanks at DW
Patrol Rifles and Shotguns
Master Plan
Rescue 2, Replacement 19R2 (2008)
Teen Center, Paint Exterior
Parks- Wallis Park Bball Court and Fence
PSB, Bldg Automation System
Total Capital Plan
Category
Equipment
Vehide
Vehicle
Vehicle
Equipment
Equipment
Facilities
Facilities
Equipment
Planning
Vehicle
Facilities
Facilities
Facilities
FY2020
Projected
15,000.00
68,000.00
48,000.00
685,000.00
19,600.00
26,500.00
162,000.00
220,000.00
16,000.00
50,000.00
310,000.00
12,000.00
36,000.00
16,000.00
1,684,100.00
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from
available funds, a sum of money to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for FY 2020
and to fix the salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other items
included in the budget of the Town Manager; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by Town Manager) (Finance Committee recommend approval, Board of Selectmen
- no recommendation)
VOTED to raise and appropriate $37,008,042.51, transfer $888,706.40 from the Sewer
Enterprise Fund, transfer $59,959.00 from the Reserve for MSBA Debt, transfer
$1,118.89 from the Reserve for Future Debt-Premium, transfer $43,500.00 from the
Artificial Turf Revolving Fund, and transfer $56,837.50 from Water Betterment Revenue
to defray the charges and expenses of the Town for Fiscal Year 2020 of $38,058,164.30,
and to fix the salaries and compensation of all elected officials of the Town and any other
items included in the budget of the Town Manager as follows:
158
===PAGE 161===
3
ЗА
3В
4
5
6
7
10
11
12
12A
13
13A
14
14A
15
Interest-Temporary Loans
Administrative Fees - Loans
Bond Issuance Costs
$37,800.00
$ 5,335.23
$
-
Total Maturing Debt
$ 4,676,483.11
Unclassified
Liability Insurance
$ 233,226.65
Workers Compensation
$ 126,527.50
Group Health Insurance
$ 2,384,177.80
Group Life Insurance
$ 15,000.00
Physicals
$ 3,500.00
Print Town Reports
$ 12,000.00
Montachusett Regional Planning Assessment |
$ 3,529.37
Historical Commission
$ 3,000.00
Band Concerts
$ 4,200.00
Agricultural Commission
$
Reserve Fund
$ 75,000.00
Salary Reserve Fund
$ 94,000.00
Unemployment Expense
$ 10,000.00
Unemployment Expense - Stab Fund
$
-
Medicare - Town's Share
$ 260,700.00
Total Gen Gov Unclassified
$ 3,224,861.32
General Government
5 Finance Committee Expens
nnual Town Audi
18
19
20
Charter Review Committee
Selectmen's Administration
Selectmen Salaries
Town Manager Salary
Town Manager Expense
Town Accountant
24
Treasurer's Administration
25
Banking Charges
$ 800.00
$ 41,750.00
$
$ 118,177.06
$
$ 131,118.00
$ 6,000.00
$ 207,130.67
$ 80,421.16
/S 1,000.00
-
-
159
