===PAGE 162===
27
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
43A
44
45
46
47
Assessor's Salaries
Assessor's Administration
Technology Director
Legal Expenses
Town Clerk Salary
Town Clerk's Administration
Registration & Census
Planning Board
Zoning Board of Appeals
Conservation Commission
Total General Government
Central Purchasing
Central Purchasing
Total Central Purchasing
Protection
Police Department
Police Lock Up
Injury Leave
Police/Fire Medical Expenses
Subtotal Police
Fire Department
Capital - Fire Dept.
Fire Hydrant Expense
Radio Equipment Mtc.
Subtotal Fire Dept.
Radio Watch
Subtotal Radio Watch
Emergency Management
$
$ 189,720.90
$ 230,042.60
$ 110,000.00
$ 50,418.00
$ 39,083.60
$ 12,902.00
$ 13,800.00
$ 151,807.40
$ 3,900.00
$ 56,183.86
$ 1,541,022.27
$ 603,030.00
$ 60,303.00
$ 1,750,774.44
$ 80,060.00
$ 4,000.00
$ 4,000.00
$ 1,838,834.44
$ 1,093,374.24
$ 20,000.00
$ 15,000.00
$ 10,000.00
$ 1,138,434.24
$ 293,107.27
$ 293,107.27
/$ 7,000.00
160
===PAGE 163===
51
52
53
54
56
58
59
60
61A
62
63
64
65
66
67
69
70
71
72
72A
Dung spector
Municipal Hearing Officer
Plumbing/Gas Inspector
Animal Control
Subtotal Other Protection
Total Protection
Health & Sanitation
General Health Expense
Nashoba Board of Health
Nashoba Nursing
Mental Health
Animal Inspector Salary
Total Health & Sanitation
Department of Public Works
Highway Labor
Highway OT
General Highway Maintenance
Capital - General Highway
Town Highway Garage
Traffic Signs & Devices
Vehicle Mtc. - Highway
Vehicle Mtc - Police
Vehicle Mtc. - Fire
Park Department
Cemetery Department
Tree Removal
Snow Removal Expense
Total DPW
Facilities and Buildings
Facilities and Grounds
Public Buildings
Additional Utilities, Library
190,/00.k0
$
$
$ 40,000.00
$ 192,058.26
$ 3,462,434.21
$ 36,645.20
$ 27,240.51
$ 12,431.23
$
-
$ 1,000.00
$ 77,316.94
$ 533,128.70
S 6,790.71
S 622,500.00
$
$ 1,040.00
$ 28,253.00
$ 73,480.00
$ 67,000.00
$ 42,000.00
$ 92,898.00
$ 57,772.36
$ 24,745.04
$ 275,720.00
-
$ 1,825,327.81
$ 464,485.47
8243,553.10
161
===PAGE 164===
73
74
78
79
79A
79B
80
82
Solid Waste/Recycling Program
Recycling Program
Total Solid Waste/Recycling
Public Assistance
Council on Aging
Subtotal C.O.A.
Veterans' Benefits
Veteran's Administration
Registrar of Vets' Graves
Memorial Day
Subtotal Veterans
Total Assistance
Schools
School Department
Unemployment School - Stab/Free Cash
Curriculum Update
Monty Tech Assessment
Vehicle Mtc - School
Total Schools
Limenburg Public Library
Total Library
Total Omnibus
162
$ 218,450.00
$ 218,450.00
$ 143,888.78
$ 143,888.78
$ 99,275.00
$ 5,250.00
$ 500.00
$ 750.00
$ 105,775.00
$ 249,663.78
$ 20,795,863.23
917.656.0
-
$ 783,987.00
$
_S 21,597,536.23
IS 416,727.06
$ 416,727.06
$ 38,058,164.30
===PAGE 165===
Chapter 70, Section 70-8.A, the Salary Administration Plan of the General Bylaws with
a FY 2020 Salary Schedule as recommended by the Personnel Committee as printed on
the purple handout, which authorizes a 2% cost of living increase for Fiscal Year 2020,
for permanent employees not covered by a collective bargaining unit agreement or
individual contract and to authorize a 2% COLA increase for Fiscal Years 2021 and FY
2022.
ARTICLE 9. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from
available funds, a sum of money to the Stabilization Fund; or take any action relative thereto.
(Submitted by Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend
approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer $100,000 from Free Cash to the Stabilization
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from
available funds, a sum of money into the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any
action relative thereto. (Submitted by Town Manager) (Board of Selectmen and Finance
Committee recommend approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer $200,000 from Free
Cash to this Special Purpose Stabilization Fund for the purpose of funding future capital
needs for vehicles and equipment.
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from
available funds, a sum of money into the OPEB Trust Fund that was created at the November
10, 2010 Special Town Meeting; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the lown
Manager) (Finance Committee Recommends Approval) (Board of Selectmen and Finance
Committee recommend approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer $150,000 from Free
Cash and to transfer $656 from Sewer Enterprise Retained Earnings to the OPEB Trust
Fund established at the November 30, 2010 Special Town Meeting.
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from
available funds, a sum of money to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY 2020; or take
any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission) (Board of Selectmen and
Finance Committee recommend approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from
Sewer Enterprise revenues the sum of $675,427.86; and appropriate from Sewer
Enterprise retained earnings the sum of $163,251.14; for a total appropriation of
$838,679.00 to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund for FY20; and further that
$888,706.40 be included in appropriations from the general fund for indirect costs and
be allocated to the Sewer Enterprise Fund.
163
===PAGE 166===
avallable tunas a sum ot money to operate the sold waste Disposal program Enterprise runa
for FY2020; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager)
(Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval) VOTED
UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from Solid Waste Disposal Enterprise Revenues the
sum of $302,000 to operate the Solid Waste Disposal Program.
ARTICLE 15. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from
available funds a sum of money to operate the Water Department/Water Enterprise Fund for
FY 2020; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) (Board
of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to
appropriate from Water Enterprise Revenues the sum of $25,000 to operate the Water
Department.
ARTICLE 16. To see if the Town will vote to establish, under Chapter 44, §53F ½, a Public
Educational Government (PEG) Access Enterprise Fund, and transfer in to such fund all funds
remaining in the Public Educational Government (PEG) Access and Cable Related Receipts
Reserved For Appropriation Fund and the Comcast Tech Capital Grant Fund as of June 30,
2019; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Public Access Committee)
(Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval) VOTED
UNANIMOUSLY
ARTICLE 17. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from
available funds, a sum of money to operate the Public Educational Government (PEG) Access
Enterprise Fund for FY20; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Public
Access Committee) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval)
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to appropriate from PEG Access and Cable Related
Enterprise Fund Revenues the sum of $152,000.00 to fund the FY20 PEG Access
operating budget.
ARTICLE 18. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from
avalable funds, a sum ot money trom Public Educational Government (PEG) Access and
Cable Related Receipts Reserved for Appropriation Fund to fund the FY20 PEG Access
operating budget; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Public Access
Committee) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval) Article 18
was PASSED OVER.
ARTICLE 19. To see if the Town will vote to appropriate a sum of money from the
Comcast Tech Capital Fund a sum of money to fund the PEG Access FY Y20 capital budget; or
take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Public Access Committee) (Board of
Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to
transfer from the Comcast Tech Capital Grant Fund the sum of $120,000.00 to fund the
FY20 PEG Access capital budget.
164
===PAGE 167===
located at 30 School Street, shown on Assessor's Map 071, Lot 076 from the Board of
Selectmen for general purposes to the Board of Selectmen for general purposes and for the
purpose of conveyance, and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey a tee simple
interest or any portion thereof, or to lease the property, on such terms and conditions as the
Board of Selectmen deem to be in the best interest of the Town, and to execute any and all
agreements and documents to effectuate said sale or lease of any of the properties and any
portion thereot and to authorize and /or reauthorize the Board of Selectmen to sell and /or
lease the parcel and/or buildings situated thereon, and/or subdivide in any manner said
parcels and/or buildings situated and /or take any legal action necessary to ettectuate the sale,
lease, subdivision, and/or transter of said land and buildings situated thereon; or take any
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) (Board of Selectmen and
Finance Committee - no recommendation) Article 21 was DEFEATED.
ARTICLE 22. To see if the Town will vote to transfer the care, custody, and control of
the land and/or building (s) thereon known as the Brooks House and property, located at
1033 Massachusetts Avenue, shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055 from the Board of
Selectmen for general purposes to the Board of Selectmen for general purposes and for the
purpose of conveyance, and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey a tee simple
interest or any portion thereot, or to lease the property, on such terms and conditions as the
Board of Selectmen deem to be in the best interest of the Town, and to execute any and all
agreements and documents to effectuate said sale or lease of any of the properties and any
portion thereof and to authorize and /or reauthorize the Board of Selectmen to sell and /or
lease the parcel and/or buildings situated thereon, and/or subdivide in any manner said
parcels and/or buildings situated and /or take any legal action necessary to effectuate the sale,
lease, subdivision, and/or transfer of said land and buildings situated thereon; or take any
other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) (Board of Selectmen -
no recommendation, Finance Committee - not recommending approval). Article 22 was
DEFEATED.
ARTICLE 23.
To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to
convey the building known as the Brooks House, located at 1033 Massachusetts Avenue,
which property is shown on Assessor's Map 060, Lot 055 from the Board of Selectmen for
general purposes to the Board of Selectmen for the purpose ot conveyance, and to authorize
the Board of Selectmen to sell said building, and take any legal action necessary to eftectuate
the sale of said building; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of
Selectmen) (Board of Selectmen recommend approval, Finance Committee - not
recommending approval) VOTED to authorize the Board of Selectmen to convey the
building known as the Brooks House.
165
===PAGE 168===
5465,000 trom tree cash for the design and engineering to consolidate town offices, school
uses, and community space at the building and land known as the TC Passios.
ARTICLE 25. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg by deleting
therefrom in its entirety Section 250-4.15, which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw entitled
"Temporary Moratorium on Sale and Distribution of Recreational Marijuana", and by
substituting therefor a new Section 250-4.15, entitled "Non-Medical Marijuana
Establishments"
', as shown on a document entitled "Article 25: Section 4.15 Non-Medical
Marijuana Establishments"
, dated April 2, 2019, which is on file at the office of the Town
Clerk, Board of Selectmen, and Planning Board; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend
approval) VOTED (2/3rds declared) (with amendments in italics) to amend the Code of
Lunenburg by deleting therefrom in its entirety Section 250-4.15, which is a Section of the
Protective Bylaw entitled "Temporary Moratorium on Sale and Distribution of
Recreational Marijuana", and by substituting therefor a new Section 250-4.15, entitled
"Non-Medical Marijuana Establishments", with amendments as follows: to Non-Medical
Marijuana Establishments 4.10(1) Marijuana Cultivator to remove SP PB- in RA, RB and
O and amend in 250-4.15. Marijuana Establishment Type 4.10(1) Marijuana Cultivator
change 375 feet to 500 Feet in RA, RB and O as shown on a document entitled "Article
4b: Section 4.15 Non-Medical Marijuana Establishments", dated April 2, 2019, which is
on file at the office of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen, and Planning Board.
ARTICLE 26. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250
-4.1 by inserting §250-4.10(1) Marijuana Cultivator; or take any other action relative thereto,
(Submitted by the Planning Board)
4.10
NON-MEDICAL
MARIJUANA USES
RA
RB
LB/R
OP/1
R
VCD
SS
4.10(1)
Marijuana cultivator?
3. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana cultivators
, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are
prohibited within the Town of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana
Treatment Centers. Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a
regular or special Town election.
4.10(1) "Marijuana cultivator", an entity licensed to cultivate, process and package marijuana,
to deliver marijuana to marijuana establishments and to transfer marijuana to other marijuana
establishments, but not to consumers. (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee do not
recommend approval) Article 26 was DEFEATED.
166
===PAGE 169===
4. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana product manufacturers, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, §
1, are prohibited within the Town of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana
Treatment Centers. Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a
regular or special Town election.
4.10(2) "Marijuana product manufacturer"
, an entity licensed to obtain, manufacture, process
and package marijuana and marijuana products, to deliver marijuana and marijuana products to
marijuana establishments and to transfer marijuana and marijuana products to other marijuana
establishments, but not to consumers. (Board of Selectmen do not recommend approval and
Finance Committee recommends approval) Article 27 was DEFEATED.
ARTICLE 28: To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify
§250-4.1 by inserting §250-4.10(3) Marijuana Testing Facility; or take any other action
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
4.10
NON-MEDICAL
MARIJUANA USES
RA
RB
LB/R
OP/I
R
VCD
SS
TT
W
4.10(3)
Marijuana
facilitys
testing
5. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana testing facilities, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are
prohibited
within the Town of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana
Treatment Centers. Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a
regular or special Town election.
4.10(3) "Marijuana testing facility", an entity licensed to test marijuana and marijuana
products, including certification for potency and the presence of contaminants. (Board of
Selectmen and Finance Committee do not recommend approval) Article 28 was DEFEATED.
ARTICLE 29: To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify
§250-4.1 by inserting §250-4.10(4) Marijuana Retailer; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
NON-MEDICAL
4.10
MARIJUANA USES
RA
RB
LB/R
OP/I
R
VCD
SS
TT
4.10(4)
Marijuana retailer
167
===PAGE 170===
Selectmen and Finance Committee do not recommend approval) Article 29 was DEFEATED.
ARTICLE 30: To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify
§250-4.1 by inserting §250-4.10(5) Marijuana Transporter; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board)
4.10
NON-MEDICAL
MARIJUANA USES
RA
RB
LB/R
OP/I
R
VCD
SS
TT
4.10(5)
Marijuana transporter?
7. Per G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)(2), marijuana transporter, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are
prohibited
within the Town of Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana
Treatment Centers. Said prohibition shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a
regular or special Town election.
cense to archase, rana, any as sens a not bothor mare lanned buth solely fisher, thats
of transporting, temporary storage, sale and distribution to Marijuana Establishments, but not
to consumers. Marijuana Transporters may be an Existing Licensee Transporter or Third Party
Transporter, (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee do not recommend approval) Article
30 was DEFEATED.
ARTICLE 31: To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, to modify §250
-4.1 by inserting §250-4.10(6) Marijuana Researcher; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Planning Board)
4.10
4.10(6)
NON-MEDICAL
MARIJUANA USES
Marijuana Researcher®
RA
LB/R
OP/I
VCD
TT
8. Per
G.L. c. 94G, § 3(a)
(2), marijuana researcher, as defined by G.L. c. 94G, § 1, are prohibited within the Town of
Lunenburg but expressly excluding Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers. Said prohibition
shall be effective only upon passage by the voters at a regular or special Town election.
4.10(6) "Marijuana Researcher Facility" an entity licensed to cultivate, purchase, or otherwise
aquire marijuana for the purpose of conducting research regarding marijuana products. (Board
of Selectmen and Finance Committee do not recommend approval) Article 31 was
DEFEATED.
168
===PAGE 171===
5.6, which is a Section of the Protective Bylaw, entitled "Cluster development," by adding the
following, new Subsection F thereto:
F. Anti-segmentation. No development or series of developments shall be
segmented or phased, nor shall any contiguous parcels in single or common
ownership as of or subsequent to the date of adoption hereof be conveyed or
otherwise transferred, so as to avoid compliance with, deter or curtail the
applicability or requirements) of this bylaw. It is not the form of ownership but
control that determines single or common ownership hereunder, which shall
expressly include ownership by affiliated or related persons and/or entities such
as, but not limited to, business organizations in the same or similar ownership
and joint tenancies, tenancies in common or trusts with a commonality of legal
or equitable interests) therein;
or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Planning Board) (Board of Selectmen no
recommendation, Finance Committee - no Direct Financial Impact) VOTED
UNANIMOUSLY
ARTICLE 34. To see if the Town will vote to acquire by gift an approximately 0.79 acre
parcel of land situated on Whalom Road, together with any improvements) thereon, being
shown as "Parcel A" on a plan of land entitled "Plan of Land in Lunenburg and Leominster,
MA Prepared for Whalom Road, LLC, August 17, 2016, Whitman & Bingham Associates,
LLC," as recorded with the Worcester Northern District Registry of Deeds in Plan Book 508,
Page 1, for general municipal purposes, under the care, custody and control of the Parks
Commission; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by Zoning Board of Appeals)
(Board of Selectmen and Park do not recommend approval, Finance Committee - no
recommendation) Article 34 was DEFEATED.
ARTICLE 35. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to petition the
General Court for the enactment of special legislation revising the Charter of the Town of
Lunenburg, adopted at the Town Election in 1999 and filed in the Office of the Archivist of the
Commonwealth as provided in Section 12 of Chapter 43B of the General Laws, as amended by
the Town on May 3, 2008 and enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
General Court on October 8, 2009, generally as follows:
(i) by substituting the phrase "select board" for the phrase "board of
selectmen," throughout said Charter;
(ii) by substituting days for months and years, throughout said Charter;
by replacing the short title "Lunenburg Home Rule Charter" with
"Charter of the Town of Lunenburg," in Section 1-2;
169
===PAGE 172===
(vili)
by substituting the phrase "building commissioner" for the phrase
"building inspector," in Sections 3-2(d) and 4-2(c);
(ix)
by replacing the term "affirm" with "ratify" as it relates to the
ratification of certain appointments, in Sections 3-2(d), 3-10(c) and 3-14
(x)
by replacing the term "elect" with "appoint" as it relates to the school
committee's appointment of a superintendent of schools, in Section 3-3
(X1)
by stating in Section 3-5(b) that certain matters are the board of
cemetery commissioners' "sole" responsibility;
(xii) by excepting the school department from the town manager's
administration of personnel, in Section 4-2(e);
(xiii)
by extending the town manager's authority to negotiate contract with
employees to "bargaining units subject to ratification by the select
board," in Section 4-2(1);
(xiv) by deleting references to certain Chapters of the General Laws, in
Sections 4-2(m) and 5-3(d) (5);
(XV) by stating in Section 5-3(a) that the director of municipal finance may be
either the town manager or his or her appointee;
(xvi) by requiring in Section 6-3 that the town manager's budget summary be
mailed with the warrant to households with registered voters";
(xVIl)
by changing "affect" to "effect" in Section 6-4, i.e. a grammatical
correction;
(XVili) by adding a new Section 6-5(d) requiring that the proposed operating
(xix)
budget "identify all other available sources of funding";
by making certain clarifications to the requirements in Section 7-8(b)
that multiple-member bodies post agendas of their meetings and act on
items not included thereon only in emergency circumstances;
(xX)
by substituting the term "minutes" for the term "journal" in Section 7-8
(c);
(xxi) by clarifying and modifying the process for the filling of vacancies in the
membership of an appointed, multiple-member body, in Section 7-8(t);
(xxii)
by stating that the notice of vacancy required by Section 7-10 does not
apply to those on multiple-member bodies; and
(xxiii) by making such other changes to the Charter as are consistent with or
required by the above modifications thereto, as shown in the report
hereinafter referenced;
and to further authorize the Charter Review Committee to submit to the
General Court for enactment as the revised Charter of the Town of
Lunenburg the proposed legislation contained in the 2019 final report of
the Charter Review Committee, effecting the foregoing changes, copies
170
===PAGE 173===
recommendation, no direct financial impact) VOTED UNANIMOUSLY
ARTICLE 36. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to petition
the General Court for the enactment of special legislation revising the Charter of the Town of
Lunenburg, adopted at the Town Election in 1999 and filed in the Office of the Archivist of
the Commonwealth as provided in Section 12 of Chapter 43B of the General Laws, as
amended by the Town on May 3, 2008 and enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the General Court on October 8, 2009, generally as follows:
(i)
by requiring in Section 2-3(b) that the members of the finance
committee be residents registered to vote in town;
(ii)
by updating Sections 3-2(d) and 4-2(c) with the names of certain town
offices either appointed by the town manager subject to select board
ratification or for which candidates are recommended by the town
manager to the select board:
(iii)
by modifying and replacing in its entirety Section 3-7(b), governing the
powers and duties of the board of trustees of the public library;
(iv)
by increasing the membership of the board of park commissioners from
three (3) to five (5), in Section 3-9(a);
(V)
by stating that the town manager will be responsible for supervision,
evaluation and personnel actions related to the positions of planning
director and sewer business manager, in Sections 3-10(c) and 3-14(c),
respectively;
(vi)
by stating in Section 4-1 that the town manager screening committee
shall submit "name(s)," not a "list," of qualified candidates to the select
board in the event of a vacancy;
(Vil)
by updating due process and procedures afforded the town manager
preceding removal or suspension, in Section 4-5(b);
(Vili)
by adding a new Section 7-11 relative to the enforcement of Charter
provisions and the town general by-laws; and
(IX)
by making such other changes to the Charter as are consistent with or
required by the above modifications thereto, as shown in the report
hereinafter referenced;
and to further authorize the Charter Review Committee to submit to the General Court for
enactment as the revised Charter of the Town of Lunenburg the proposed legislation contained
in the 2019 final report of the Charter Review Committee, effecting the foregoing changes,
copies of which have been placed on file in the offices of the Town Clerk and Board of
Selectmen, at Town Hall, and made available for public distribution at said offices of the
Town Clerk and Board of Selectmen, at the main circulation desk of the Lunenburg Public
Library and on the Town website forthwith following said filing; and to further authorize the
171
===PAGE 174===
M.G.L. Chapter 59, Section 38Hl (b), and Chapter 164, Section 1, or any other enabling
authority, between the Town and Borrego Solar, Inc. or its successors or assigns, for personal
property attributable to solar photovoltaic facilities to be installed and operated in the Town of
Lunenburg on land located at 190 Electric Avenue and as shown on Assessor's Map 77, Parcel
14 for a term of 20 years and on such terms and conditions and for such consideration as the
Board of Selectmen deems appropriate and further to authorize the Board of Selectmen to take
such action as may be necessary to carry out the vote taken hereunder; or take any other action
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) (Board of Selectmen recommend
approval, Finance Committee - no recommendation, no direct financial impact) VOTED
ARTICLE 38. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Zoning Map by rezoning portions
of the land located at 131 Leominster Shirley Road from Residence B District to Commercial
District so the entire lot is in the Commercial District so the entire lot is in the Commercial
District portions of 151 Leominster Shirley Road from Commercial District to Office Park and
Industrial District so the entire lot is in the Office Park and Industrial District, and portions of
181 Leominster Shirley Road from Residence B District to Office Park and Industrial District
so the entire lot is in the Office Park and Industrial District, as shown on a plan on file at the
office of the Town Clerk, Board of Selectmen, and Planning Board; or take any other action
relative thereto. (Citizen's Petition) (Planning Board
recommendations from Board of Selectmen or Finance Committee VOTED
UNANIMOUSLY
ARTICLE 39. To see if the Town will vote to grant the Lunenburg Historical Society,
Inc. an easement to continue its 53-year use of a certain tract of land, described as follows:
Beginning at the southeasterly corner of property of the Lunenburg Historical Society, Inc. on
the westerly side of School Street, south 72° 09° 30" east approximately 79.5 feet to the
westerly side of School Street at land to be retained by the inhabitants of Lunenburg, thence
north 10° 55" east approximately 145 feet to the point of beginning, intersection with land of
the Lunenburg Historical Society, Inc., consisting of approximately 0.25 acre, with exact
angles and distances to be confirmed by survey; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Citizen's Petition) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval)
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY (with amendment in italics) to grant the Lunenburg
Historical Society, Inc. an easement to continue its 53-year use of a certain tract of land,
described
as follows:
Beginning at the southeasterly corner of property of the
Lunenburg Historical Society, Inc. on the westerly side of School Street, south 72° 09' 30"
east approximately 79.5 feet to the westerly side of School Street at land to be retained by
the inhabitants of Lunenburg, thence north 10° 55" east approximately 145 feet to the
point of intersection with land of the Lunenburg Historical Society, Inc., consisting of
approximately 0.25 acre, with exact angles and distances to be confirmed by survey.
172
===PAGE 175===
(Citizen's Petition) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee deferred recommendation)
(Planning Board did not recommend approval) Article 40 was PASSED OVER.
ARTICLE 41. To see whether the Town will vote to adopt a bylaw as follows:
Special Event Permit Guidelines
Welcome and Instructions The Town of Lunenburg is proud of the strong sense of
community that exists amongst its residents. To further this sense of community the Town is
happy to welcome special events from athletic events to concerts to community festivals. The
goal of the Town of Lunenburg is to ensure that these events are safe and successful, while
minimizing the impact on our residents and businesses. The following instructions are intended
to assist applicants in planning and preparing to carry out their special event.
Accordingly, the Selectmen shall be authorized to grant permits for special events, as defined
in this bylaw, subject to the rules and regulations governing special events set forth herein.
Guidelines for Special Events
A Special Event is any private event/activity held on public property or an event open to the
general public held on private property that involves or affects, directly or incidentally, the
ordinary use of parks, playgrounds, fields, public buildings, streets and rights-of-way and/or
sidewalks. Special events may include, but are not necessarily limited to, athletic tournaments,
concerts, fairs, festivals, holiday celebrations, parades, road or bicycle races, trainings
workshops. Properties may hold multiple Special Events, with a maximum of 6 events per
private property, in a calendar year given that the appropriate permits, approvals and
inspections are in place. Events beyond 6 not permitted without reference to zoning in the
district.
Individuals or organizations wishing to hold Special Events on public or private property must
obtain a Special Event Permit from the Town of Lunenburg. Special Event Permit Applications
must be filed a minimum of sixty (60) days prior to the event, failure to do so may result in the
denial of application.
Exemptions: The following events are exempt from Special Event Permitting:
• Town Events held on Town property
• Events held in conjunction with the Lunenburg Public Schools or the Lunenburg Public
Library
• Events held by Private Membership Organizations where only members and guests are
invited
173
===PAGE 176===
regulated and must be part of the permit.
Special Events may span multiple days and include on-site camping (as permitted by the Board
of Health) but shall not exceed 4 days. No more than Three (3) multiple day events may be
approved per calendar year per private property.
Alcohol / drug Use: Alcohol is prohibited in all Town of Lunenburg public property,
including buildings, parks, playgrounds, fields, etc. Any event on private property may provide
alcohol for a fee, provided that there is strict compliance with the Town of Lunenburg policy
regarding such (Town of Lunenburg Board of Selectmen Policies and Procedures, as amended).
No Bring Your Own Bottle (BYOB) Permits may be issued for Special Events. Private events
that serve alcohol for free or allow participants to provide their own alcohol shall not be subject
to this provision.
Recreational use of drugs shall be prohibited at any permitted Special Event that takes place on
Town of Lunenburg property. This shall be deemed to include marijuana.
Restrooms/Trash/Cleanup: The Town of Lunenburg may require event organizers to
provide temporary toilet facilities. Temporary toilet facilities must be cleaned daily or as
necessary per the Lunenburg Board of Health. Trash must be disposed of in approved
T of at oil r
containers. Trash pickup and disposal is to be performed as required by the Board of Health.
The applicant must clean the right-of-way or public property of all rubbish and debris, returning
it to its pre-event condition at the conclusion of the event. If the applicant fails to clean up
debris and trash within the specified period, cleanup will be arranged by the Town and charged
to the applicant.
Traffic & Parking: Parking is permitted in designated areas only. The event organizer
will be responsible for providing a parking plan to the Lunenburg Police Department for their
approval. Parking may not interfere with event entrances or emergency access.
Traffic and Parking Plans shall not violate Chapter 332 of the Code of Lunenburg.
Signs: Signs are permitted, though approval may be required by the Building Inspector.
No signs may be affixed to trees, buildings or street furniture.
Smoking: Smoking is not permitted in any public facility, on school grounds or on
recreational parks, fields or playgrounds.
Fireworks: fireworks are not permitted within the Town of Lunenburg without proper
licensing.
Tents: Large Function Tents over 2500 sq. feet require an inspection or permit from the
Town of Lunenburg Board of Health, Building and Fire Departments. Such structures require a
flame resistant certificate issues by an acceptable testing laboratory and site plan indicating a
174
===PAGE 177===
documentation the Board of Selectmen may reduce this distance at
their discretion under
reasonable circumstances.
First Aid/Medical: Events may require provisions for first aid and medical personnel.
Arrangements should be with a private service for the event. The Fire Department can provide a
list of contacts.
ACCESSABILITY: Any Special Event permitted through the Town of Lunenburg shall
be accessible to all persons who may attend. This includes the provision of accessible parking
spaces, paths, restroom facilities and any other reasonable accommodations that may be
required.
EVENT LAYOUT: All Special Event Applications shall include an Event Layout Plan
that includes:
Site Access
Parking Areas
Restroom Facilities
Required Buffer Zone
Location of any abutting houses
Food Service Area (if applicable)
Sleeping Accommodations (it available)
Wetlands on the property (if applicable)
First Aid Station (if applicable)
Alcohol Serving Areas (if applicable)
Location of Stage or Entertainment (if applicable)
Route of Race (if applicable)
Any Additional Event Features not listed.
Insurance: At the discretion of the Board of Selectmen, all applicants must provide a
certificate of insurance. Terms of insurance may be set by the Board of Selectmen in scope and
financial amount at their discretion or set at the minimum amount of $1,000,000 for
commercial general liability as a precondition for obtaining permits. The Certificate of
Insurance must include all coverage deemed necessary for the event, as specified by the Town
of Lunenburg and Town Counsel, including indemnification and hold harmless clause. The
Certificate of Insurance must name the Town of Lunenburg as an additional insured on
applicable policies. This Certificate and verification of Workers Compensation Coverage must
be submitted to the Town Manager's Office no later than ten (10) business days prior to the
date of the event. Final Special Event Permits will not be issued without submission of a
Certificate of Insurance reflecting the necessary Workers Compensation Coverage to comply
with State Law.
175
===PAGE 178===
applying event forgo any permit requirement in these guidelines.
Enforcement: Town of Lunenburg Police, Fire or other staff so designated by the Town
Manager, may request that a resident, event employee, or participant leave any park or public
facility for violation of the rules and regulations.
Special Event Permit Process:
Filing of Special Event Permit Application & Supporting Material with Board of Selectmen
Distribution of Material to Relevant Departments for Review
Meeting of Relevant Departments to discuss event coordination
Submission of Comments from Town Staff to BOS.
BOS Public Hearing on Special Event Permit
Vote on Special Event and Permit Issuance
(Citizen's Petition) (Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee deferred recommendation)
Article 41 was PASSED OVER.
ARTICLE 42. This petition seeks to change the special permit granting
authority in Section 4.13 (Solar Energy Systems) of the protective bylaws of the
Town of Lunenburg. Under the current bylaw, the Planning Board grants special
permits when it comes to photovoltaic installations. I am seeking to change the
language so that the Zoning Board is the granting authority.
I am proposing the following changes to §250-4.13. Solar energy systems:
• §250-4.13 D. (1). Purpose (b) - .....
"The special permit granting authority
for these purposes shall be the Zoning Board of Appeals".
• §250-4.13 D. (3). Siting by special permit- .....
"more than 20 acres in
any district by special permit issued by the Zoning Board of
• $2S0-4.13 D. (3). (2) Standards - "In granting the special permit, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall find...
• §250-4.13 D. (3). (b) Conditions- "The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose.....
• §250-4.13 D. (7). (a) Setbacks and buffer strips - "…...and the Zoning Board of Appeals
finds..."
• §250-4.13 D. (8). (a) Required documents - ".....The Zoning Board of Appeals may
• §250-4.13 D. (11). Abandonment and removal - "....written consent of the Zoning
Board of Appeals may waive...
"The owner or operator shall notify the Zoning
Board of Appeals by certified mail.."... "Landscaping may be left upon approval of the
Zoning Board of Appeals.....".
(Citizen's Petition) (Board of Selectmen did not recommend approval 3-1) (Finance Committee deferred
recommendation) (Planning Board did not recommend approval) Article 42 was DEFEATED.
176
===PAGE 179===
closed.)
Town Meeting adjourned at 7:45 PM
177
===PAGE 180===
SPECIAL TOWN MEETING
NOVEMBER 12, 2019
The Special Town Meeting was called to order by the Moderator at 7:00 P.M. in the
Lunenburg Middle High School Auditorium, 1079 Massachusetts Avenue; it was
declared that the warrant was properly served and that a quorum was present, the rules
of procedure were laid out and we pledged allegiance to the flag. At 7:06 P.M. action
was taken on Article 1.
ARTICLE 1. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate, borrow, or
transfer from available funds, all sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted for
the Town's FY 2020 Budget, under Article 7 of the May 4, 2019 Town Meeting; or take
any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen
and Finance Committee recommend approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer to
line #1/Principal - Loans the sum of $571.00; transfer to line #3/Interest - Temporary
Loans the sum of $19,994.48; transfer from line #2/Interest - Loans the sum of
$15,377.00; and transfer from line #28/Assessor's Administration the sum of
$12,000.00; for a total reduction of $6,811.52 in the amount raised and appropriated
for the Town's FY 2020 Budget under Article 7 of the May 4, 2019 Annual Town
Meeting.
ARTICLE 2. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, a sum of money to the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund; or take any other action
relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Board of Selectmen and Finance
Committee recommend approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to raise and appropriate the
sum of $08,222. to the Special Purpose Stabilization Fund.
ARTICLE 3. To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate or transfer from available
funds, all sums of money necessary to amend the amounts voted under Article 12 of the May
4, 2019 Town Meeting for the Sewer Enterprise Fund; or take any other action relative
thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee
recommend approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to transfer $9,993. from the Sewer Reserve
Capacity Stabilization Fund and to reduce the appropriation from Sewer Anticipated
Receipts by $9,993., to amend the amounts voted to operate the Sewer Enterprise Fund
under Article 12 of the May 4, 2019 Annual Town Meeting.
178
===PAGE 181===
funds, a sum of money to fund the first year of the FY 20, FY 21 and FY 22 Police Officers
Collective Bargaining Agreement dated July 1, 2019 - June 30, 2022 with IBPO Local 353,
AFL-CIO; or take any action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Town Manager) Article 5 was
PASSED OVER
ARTICLE 6. To see if the Town will vote to authorize the Board of Selectmen to acquire,
by gift, purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, that certain property, determined to be unique,
owned by John E. Saliba and David G. Saliba, being the remaining land of said owners as
described in a deed recorded at the Worcester North District Registry of Deeds at Book 4630,
Page 224, the northern portion thereof (approximately 259.31 acres, including approximately
21,740 square feet in Fitchburg, at 994 Northfield Road Rear, Lunenburg Assessor Parcel ID
037-0015-00 and Fitchburg Assessor Parcel ID S31-12-A and S31-12-D) to be acquired by the
Town under the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 40, Section 8C, as it may
hereafter be amended, and other Massachusetts statutes relating to conservation, to be under
the care, custody and control of the Conservation Commission for conservation and passive
recreation purposes, and the southern portion thereof (approximately 58.75 acres at 961
Northfield Road S, Lunenburg Assessor Parcel ID 037-0009-00) to be acquired by the lown
under the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 45, Section 3, as it may hereafter
be amended, and other Massachusetts statutes relating to recreation, to be under the care,
custody and control of the Parks Commission for recreation and parks purposes; and to raise
and appropriate, borrow, or transfer from available funds a sum of $782,000 for said purpose,
including the payment of all costs incidental or relative thereto; provided, however, that the
acquisition of said property shall be contingent upon the Town being awarded the maximum
eligible grant amounts under the Commonwealth of Massachusetts' Local Acquisitions for
Natural Diversity (LAND) and Parkland Acquisitions and Renovations for Communities
(PARC) Grant Programs; that the amount borrowed will be reduced by any grant funding
received towards the property acquisition; and that the Board of Selectmen be authorized to
enter into all agreements and execute any and all instruments as may be necessary on behalf of
said Town to affect the aforesaid acquisition; or take any other action relative thereto.
(Submitted by the Land Acquisition Committee) Board of Selectmen and Finance Committee
recommend approval.
VOTED (2/3rds DECLARED) to authorize the Board of Selectmen to acquire, by
purchase, eminent domain or otherwise, that certain property, determined to be unique,
owned by John E. Saliba and David G. Saliba, being the remaining land of said owners as
described in a deed recorded at the Worcester North District Registry of Deeds at Book
4630, Page 224, the northern portion thereof (approximately 259.31 acres, including
179
===PAGE 182===
Commission for conservation and passive recreation purposes, and the southern portion
thereof (approximately 58.75 acres at 961 Northfield Road S, Lunenburg Assessor Parcel
ID 037-0009-00, meaning and intending to include a parcel of land shown as "Parcel 'B'"
on a plan of land recorded at said Registry Plan Book 512 Plan 8, said parcel to be
annexed thereto) to be acquired by the Town under the provisions of Massachusetts
General Laws, Chapter 45, Section 3, as it may hereafter be amended, and other
Massachusetts statutes relating to recreation, to be under the care, custody and control of
the Parks Commission for recreation and parks purposes; and to raise and appropriate,
borrow, or transfer from available funds a sum of $782,000 for said purpose, including
the payment of all costs incidental or relative thereto; provided, however, that the
acquisition of said property shall be contingent upon the Town being awarded the
maximum eligible grant amounts under the Commonwealth of Massachusetts' Local
Acquisitions for Natural Diversity (LAND) and Parkland Acquisitions and Renovations
for Communities (PARC) Grant Programs; that the amount borrowed will be reduced by
any grant funding received towards the property acquisition; and that the Board of
Selectmen be authorized to enter into all agreements and execute any and all instruments
as may be necessary on behalf of said Town to affect the aforesaid acquisition.
ARTICLE 7. To see if the Town will vote to acquire by gift that certain property, determined
to be unique, known as and numbered 842 Chase Road Rear, more specifically identified in the
Assessor's records as Parcel 013-0001, and being further described in a deed recorded with the
Worcester North District Registry of Deeds at Book 3611, Page 145, said property consisting of
23 acres, more or less; such property to be held in the care, custody and control of the
Conservation Commission for conservation purposes, no appropriation being required therefor;
or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Conservation Commission) Board of
Selectmen and Finance Committee recommend approval. VOTED UNANIMOUSLY to acquire
by gift that certain property, determined to be unique, known as and numbered 842
Chase Road Rear, more specifically identified in the Assessor's records as Parcel 013-
0001, and being further described in a deed recorded with the Worcester North District
Registry of Deeds at Book 3611, Page 145, said property consisting of 23 acres, more or
less; such property to be held in the care, custody and control of the Conservation
Commission for conservation purposes, no appropriation being required therefor.
ARTICLE 8. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Sewer Service Area Map by adding
189 Cross Road to the Lunenburg Sewer Service Area and Sewer Service Zone (parcel ID 112-
58); or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Sewer Commission) Board of
Selectmen recommends approval, Finance Committee No Direct Financial Impact. VOTED to
amend the Sewer Service Area Map by adding 189 Cross Road to the Lunenburg Sewer
Service Area and Sewer Service Zone (parcel ID 112-58).
180
===PAGE 183===
action relative thereto. (Submitted by the Personnel Committee) Board of Selectmen and
Finance Committee recommend approval. VOTED (with amendments) to amend the Code of
Lunenburg, Chapter 70 entitled "Salary Administration Plan" as follows: the position of
Life Guard to be changed from a Grade 1 to a Grade 34; the position of Public Access
Production Assistant to be added and assigned Grade 9; the position of Recreation
Director to be added and assigned Grade 9; the position of Building Commissioner be
changed from a Grade 14 to a Grade 16; the position of COA Director be changed from
a Grade 11 to a Grade 1314; and the position of Assistant Town Manager/HR Director
to be added and assigned Grade 16.
ARTICLE 10. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 81
entitled "Town Meetings" as follows: by deleting from §81.3, entitled "Closing of warrant,"
the sentence: "All requests for the insertion of subjects in the warrant for the Annual Town
Meeting shall be submitted on or before 4:00 p.m. on the 42nd day before the date of the
Annual Town Meeting"; and substituting the following sentence therefor: "All requests for
the insertion of subjects in the warrant for the Annual Town Meeting shall be submitted on or
before 4:00 p.m. on the 47th day before the date of commencement of the Annual Town
Meeting"; or take any other action relative thereto (Submitted by the Board of Selectmen)
Board of Selectmen recommends approval, Finance Committee No Financial Impact.
VOTED to amend the Code of Lunenburg, Chapter 81 entitled "Town Meetings" as
follows: by deleting from §81.3, entitled "Closing of warrant," the sentence: "All
requests for the insertion of subjects in the warrant for the Annual Town Meeting shall
be submitted on or before 4:00 p.m. on the 42nd day before the date of the Annual Town
Meeting"; and substituting the following sentence therefor: "All requests for the
insertion of subjects in the warrant for the Annual Town Meeting shall be submitted on
or before 4:00 p.m. on the 47th day before the date of commencement of the Annual
Town Meeting"
ARTICLE 11. To see if the Town will vote to amend the Code of Lunenburg, by
deleting in its entirety Chapter 140 Article I, entitled "Excavations and Earth Removal," and
substituting the language below therefor; or take any other action relative thereto. (Submitted
by the Planning Board) Article 11 was DEFEATED to see if the Town will vote to amend the
Code of Lunenburg, by deleting in its entirety Chapter 140 Article I, entitled
"Excavations and Earth Removal," and substituting the language below therefor; or
take any other action relative thereto.
181
===PAGE 184===
§ 140-2 Definitions.
As used in this bylaw, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
ABUTTERS The owners of property within 300 feet of the perimeter of the subject
property.
APPLICANT The owner of land from which earth will be removed or fill to be placed,
or the person of lawful standing in the stead of such owner. Any person, company, or agent
standing instead of the actual property owner must have the owner's written permission to
do so.
BOARD The Planning Board of the Town of Lunenburg, which shall act as the permit
granting authority (PGA).
EARTH This term shall include soil, loam, sand, gravel, clay, peat, rock, or other
earth material in solid form.
EARTH REMOVAL OPERATION Any commercial mining, stripping, quarrying,
tilling, digging or blasting of earth originating trom the lown of Lunenburg and its
transportation into or out of the Town of Lunenburg.
EROSION The process by which the ground surface is worn by forces such as wind,
running water, ice, abrasion, gravity, transportation or by artificial means.
FILLING OF LAND The import and use of earth materials on any parcel of land
within the Town of Lunenburg.
GRAVEL Loose fragments of rock or coarse aggregate resulting from natural
disintegration and abrasion of rock or processing of weakly bound conglomerate.
LOAM OR TOPSOIL A soil consisting of a friable mixture of varying proportions of
clay, sand, silt, and organic matter.
PGA The permit granting authority, which will be the Planning Board for the
purposes of this article.
PROCESSING The sorting or separation of earth materials into distinct categories
based on particle size or type usually through the use of a screening process, not including
stone crushing.
182
===PAGE 185===
less in diameter based on the Wentworth scale of measurement.
SITE A distinct portion of one or more contiguous lots, under the same or different
ownerships, on which an earth removal and/or fill operation is conducted, or is proposed to
be conducted, under the permit.
SLOPE An area that is more or less steep, as measured by the vertical rise over the
horizontal distance, expressed as a percentage or ratio. For example, a rise of one foot over
three horizontal feet is a slope of 33% and is expressed as a ratio of 3:1 slope.
STONE CRUSHING The mechanical operation which creates smaller-sized stones or
stone products from larger-sized stones, boulders or particles typically using a crushing
plant or similar machinery.
§ 140-3 Applicability.
A. All earth removal and earth filling operations in the Town shall provide the following
information, in writing, to the Building Inspector within six months of the effective date of
this article:
(1) The map and parcel number of the subject property;
(2) An estimate of the amount of material left to be removed (if earth removal);
(3) An estimate of the amount of fill material remaining to be placed (it fill);
(4) An estimate of the anticipated annual volume of activity;
(5) A description of completed and planned reclamation of the property;
(6) The date the operation began; and
(7) The anticipated date of completion or cessation of the operations.
B. Except as provided in § 140-4 or 140-5, a permit shall be required for any of the
following activities:
(1) Earth removal that involves 500 cubic yards or more of material per calendar year
(January through December).
183
===PAGE 186===
C. An earth removal or filling operation that does not exceed any of the above thresholds
shall not require a permit but is subject to the following requirements (unless otherwise
agreed to, in writing, by the abutting property owner:
(1) The operation shall not encroach closer than 10 feet to a property line; and
(2) No greater than a 1:1 slope shall exist between the operation and the ten-foot buffer.
§ 140-4 Exemptions.
The following earth removal or fill operations are exempted from the requirement to obtain
a permit under this article:
A. Earth removal or the placement of fill associated with the installation of septic systems,
which shall be governed by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Environmental Code
(Title 5, 310 CMR 15.000).
B. Earth removal or the placement of fill associated with the installation of foundations
for new buildings and/or building additions, which shall be governed by MGL c. 143 and
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Building Code (780 CMR).
C. Earth removal or the placement of fill proposed for land falling within the Town's
Floodplain Protection District, which shall be governed by §§ 250-4.8 of the Lunenburg
Zoning Bylaw and require a special permit from the Planning Board.
D. Earth removal or the placement of fill proposed for land falling within the Town's
Wetland Protection Bylaw and associated buffer zones, which shall be governed by the
Wetlands Chapter within the Town's General Bylaws (Chapter 239), which is administered
by the Conservation Commission, and the Massachusetts Wetlands Protection Act.
E. Earth removal or the placement of fill that involves less than 500 cubic yards.
*. Earth removal or the placement of fill, where the operation occurs entirely within an
individual parcel and where a Town-accepted public way is not used tor the
transportation of the material.
G. Earth removal or the placement of fill within the right-of-way for a new subdivision
road that has been approved by the Planning Board or Zoning Board where there is already
a bond in place with the Town to ensure performance.
184
===PAGE 187===
deposited
on adjacent properties; or to otherwise cause nulsances,
nazaras,
or olner
objectionable conditions detrimental to health, safety, or property values in adjacent areas.
ili. the excavation is not active for a period of time greater than is reasonable for the activity
being conducted.
iv. Any earth removal or fill is limited to the necessary scope of the project.
The PGA shall, upon petition by an abutter or by any Town Official or Town Board, review
an operation that would be exempt from the permit requirement pursuant to this § 140-4 and
may determine that, because of the nature and scope of the earth removal or fill operation, a
permit is nonetheless required.
§ 140-5 Continuation of Existing soil removal operations.
A. An existing operation that had been issued a permit by the Board of Selectmen under
the Earth Removal Bylaw that was in effect prior to the effective date of this Bylaw may
continue to operate according to the terms of such permit, which shall hereafter be
enforceable by the PGA pursuant to this article.
B. An existing earth removal and/or fill operation that was not required to obtain a permit
under the prior Earth Removal Bylaw, but which exceeds the thresholds specified in § 140-
3B of this article, may continue to operate without being required to apply for or obtain a
permit for a period of three years from the effective date of this article, provided that the
owner or operator of said operation submits to the Building Inspector the information
required in § 140-3A within six months of the effective date of this article.
C. The right of an existing operation to operate pursuant to § 140-5A under a permit
previously issued by the Board of Selectmen, or to operate without a permit pursuant to
§ 140-5B, shall expire if the operation is discontinued. An operation shall be deemed to have
been discontinued if no earth removal or fill activity occurs at the site for a period of 12
consecutive months.
§ 140-6 Permit criteria for earth removal and fill operations.
A. Permits for earth removal and/or fill operations shall be granted by the PGA only upon
its written determination that the proposed use shall not cause substantial detriment to the
neighborhood, or the Town, taking into account the characteristics of the site and the
proposal in relation to the site and surrounding environment.
185
===PAGE 188===
(4) Impacts on the natural environment; and
(5) Potential fiscal impact, including impact on Town services, tax base and property
values.
B. Determination for each of the five criteria shall be set forth in the permit decision as findings
of fact.
§ 140-7 General limitations.
A. No permit shall be issued for the removal of earth or the placement of fill in any location if
such an operation:
(1) Will endanger the public safety, public health or constitute a nuisance.
(2) Will produce noise, dust, or other noxious effects observable at the lot lines of the property
in amounts objectionable or detrimental to the normal use of adjacent properties.
(3) Will result in the transportation of materials in such manner as to cause traffic congestion,
dust, spillage, noise, or other nuisances or hazards, particularly on residential streets.
(4) Will result in the transportation over ways which will be unduly injured thereby.
)) Will result in a change of topography and cover which will be disadvantageous to the mos
ppropriate final use of the land or to the use of lands adiacent to the sit
(6) Will cause irreparable harm to or loss of important wildlife, wildlife habitat or rare plant
species indigenous to the area.
(7) Will result in stormwater damaging abutting properties.
B. Applicants are encouraged to submit a written statement regarding how each of the previous
items will be addressed and/or mitigated.
§ 140-8 Regulations.
The PGA may adopt and periodically amend rules and regulations for the implementation of
this article, by majority vote. Such rules and regulations may set forth performance standards
for earth removal and fill operations, impose filing and consultant fees, define additional terms
not inconsistent with the article, and establish administrative procedures. Failure by the PGA to
adopt such rules and regulations or a legal declaration of their invalidity by a court of law shall
not act to suspend or invalidate the effect of this article.
§ 140-9 Permit procedures.
A. Any person wishing to obtain a permit to remove from or place earth material on a
property in the Town, or to use any public way within the Town for transporting such
material, shall file a completed application for a permit together with any required
186
===PAGE 189===
PGA after evidence is presented that all conditions of the expiring permit have been
complied with and the work has been performed in good taith. There is no limit on the
number of permit renewals an applicant can apply for. A public hearing may be required by
the PGA, at its discretion, for renewal of permits.
§ 140-10 Public hearing.
A. Once a complete permit application is filed with the PGA, the PGA shall set a date for a
public hearing and so notify the applicant. Notice of the hearing shall be published by the
PGA, at the applicant's expense, in a newspaper of general circulation in each of two
successive weeks, the first publication being not less than 14 days before the day of said
hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be given to all owners of real estate abutting upon the
land specified in the permit application or lying within 300 feet of the subject parcel, all as
appearing on the most recent tax list. The PGA will arrange for the publication and
transmission of the notice of the hearing to the abutters, and the costs will be billed to the
applicant. Final approval for the permit shall not be made until all hearing fees have been
paid in full.
B. The PGA's final action, rendered in writing, shall consist of either:
1) Approval of the site plan based upon determination that the proposed plan will
constitute a suitable development and is in compliance with the standards set forth
in this Bylaw; or
2) Disapproval of the site plan based upon a determination that the proposed plan does
not meet the standards set forth in this Bylaw; or
3) Approval of the site plan subject to any condition, modification or restriction
required by the Planning Board which will ensure that the project meets the standards
set forth in this Bylaw.
§ 140-11 Bond or security.
The Board may require suitable bond or other security adequate to assure compliance with
any of the provisions of this bylaw.
§ 140-12 Enforcement; violations and penalties.
A. The PGA or its authorized agent shall enforce this article, its regulations, and the
requirements and conditions of permits issued thereunder and may pursue civil and criminal
remedies for violations of the same.
B. The Building Inspector is authorized to conduct inspections on behalf of the PGA. To
the extent permitted by law, or if authorized by the owner, operator, or other person in
control of the site, the Building Inspector or other agent of the PGA may enter on the site to
conduct inspections.
187
===PAGE 190===
remediation of violations.
issued ty person may olates any poy a on of thinotie or an aio per errise madrass
that such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
F. As an alternative to a criminal fine, the Town may utilize the noncriminal disposition
procedures of MGL c. 40, § 21D, in which case the Building Inspector shall be the enforcing
person. The penalty for the first offense shall be $100. The penalty for the second offense
shall be $200. The penalty for the third and subsequent offenses shall be $300.
* the vic ater holds a perich isued under this as hath PA may sevoke the permit
necessary measures are taken to assure compliance with this article and a new permit is
issued.
§ 140-13 Severability.
The provisions of this article are severable, and the invalidity of any section, subdivision,
paragraph, or other part of this article shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the
remainder of the article.
ARTICLE 12. To see if the Town will vote to accept as a public or town way, under
the provisions of Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 82, as amendment, that certain
roadway known as Butterfly Lane, as shown on plans on file in the Board of Selectmen and
Town Clerk's Office entitled "Butterfly Lane As-built Street Plan of Land in Lunenburg,
Mass, prepared for Mike Crowley, dated August 16, 2019 and being plan 14-L-876 by
Whitman & Bingham Associates, LLC,
," and "Butterfly Lane Acceptance Plan of Land in
Lunenburg, Mass, prepared for Mike Crowley, dated August 16, 2019 and being plan 14-L-
876 by Whitman & Bingham Associates, LLC"; and to authorize the Board of Selectmen to
accept for nominal consideration a deed of a fee interest therein, said roadway having been
determined to be unique, to be used for municipal purposes consistent with those uses to
which other public ways in the Town are customarily put; or take any other action relative
thereto.
(Submitted by the Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen and Finance
Committee recommend approval. VOTED to accept as a public or town way, under the
provisions of Massachusetts General Laws Chapter 82, as amended, that certain
roadway known as Butterfly Lane, as shown on plans on file in the Board of Selectmen
and Town Clerk's Office entitled "Butterfly Lane As-built Street Plan of Land in
Lunenburg, Mass, prepared for Mike Crowley, dated August 16, 2019 and being plan
14-L-876 by Whitman & Bingham Associates, LLC," and "Butterfly Lane Acceptance
Plan of Land in Lunenburg, Mass, prepared for Mike Crowley, dated August 16, 2019
and being plan 14-4-876 by Whitman & Bingham Associates, LLC"; and to authorize
the Board of Selectmen to accept for nominal consideration a deed of fee interest
therein, said roadway having been determined to be unique, to be used for municipal
188
===PAGE 191===
30 School Street, which vote shall be a non-binding resolution meant to provide
guidance to the Board of Selectmen.
ARTICLE 14. To see if the Town will vote to file a Home Rule Petition with the General
Court for a special law authorizing the Town to grant an additional license for the sale of
wines and malt beverages not to be drunk on the premises to Lanni Orchards. (Submitted by
Board of Selectmen) Board of Selectmen recommend approval and Finance Committee
recommends disapproval. VOTED to file a Home Rule Petition with the General Court for a
special law authorizing the Town to grant an additional license for the sale of wines and
malt beverages not to be drunk on the premises to Lanni Orchards. The proposed
Special Act would read as follows:
The proposed Special Act would read as follows:
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE TOWN OF LUNENBURG TO GRANT AN ADDITIONAL
LICENSE FOR THE SALE OF WINES AND MALT BEVERAGES NOT TO BE DRUNK
ON THE PREMISES TO LANNI ORCHARDS
SECTION 1. (a) Notwithstanding section 17 of chapter 138 of the General Laws, the
licensing authority of the town of Lunenburg may grant 1 additional license for the sale of
wines and malt beverages not to be drunk on the premises pursuant to section 15 of said
chapter 138 to Lanni Orchards, located at 294 Chase Road. The license shall be subject to all
of said chapter 138 except said section 17.
(b) The licensing authority of the town of Lunenburg shall not approve the transfer of the
license granted pursuant to this act to any other location but it may grant a license to a new
applicant at the same location if the applicant files with the licensing authority a letter from
the department of revenue and a letter from the department of unemployment assistance
indicating that the license is in good standing with those departments and that all applicable
taxes, fees and contributions have been paid.
(c) If a license granted pursuant to this act is cancelled, revoked or no longer in use at the
location of original issuance, it shall be returned physically, with all of the legal rights,
privileges and restrictions pertaining thereto, to the licensing authority and the licensing
authority may then grant the license to a new applicant at the same location under the same
conditions as specified in this act.
SECTION 2. This act shall take effect upon its passage.
189
===PAGE 192===
and malt beverages not to be drunk on the premises, in addition to that authorized by
the Home Rule Petition referenced in the preceding Article 14. The proposed Special
Act would read as follows:
AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE TOWN OF LUNENBURG TO GRANT AN
ADDITIONAL LICENSE FOR THE SALE OF WINES AND MALT BEVERAGES NOT
TO BE DRUNK ON THE PREMISES
SECTION 1. (a) Notwithstanding section 17 of chapter 138 of the General Laws, the
licensing authority of the town of Lunenburg may grant 1 additional license for the sale of
wines and malt beverages not to be drunk on the premises pursuant to section 15 of said
chapter 138. The license shall be subject to all of said chapter 138 except said section 17.
(b) The licensing authority of the town of Lunenburg may approve the transfer of the
license granted pursuant to this act to another location if the applicant files with the
licensing authority a letter from the department of revenue and a letter from the department
of unemployment assistance indicating that the license is in good standing with those
departments and that all applicable taxes, fees and contributions have been paid.
(C) It a license granted pursuant to this act is cancelled, revoked or no longer in use at the
location of original issuance, it shall be returned physically, with all of the legal rights,
privileges may resen gions he anie the lo, no the icensin at ho location as imaging
determined by the licensing authority under the same conditions as specified in this act.
SECTION 2. This act shall take effect upon its passage.
Meeting adjourned at 10:45 PM.
190
===PAGE 193===
TOTAL REGISTERED VOTERS
BALLOTS CAST (PER BALLOT BOX)
SELECTMAN
3 YEARS
VOTE FOR 2
MICHAEL RAY JEFFREYS
THOMAS A. ALONZO
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
1943
131
98
100
54
262
1850
65
2203
95
1840
132
7836
423
48
56
3
23
130
79
88
4
19
190
104
116
7
37
264
329
360
24
133
846
SEWER COMMISSIONER
3 YEARS
VOTE FOR 2
JOHN D. REYNOLDS
CARL A. LUCK
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
BOARD OF HEALTH MEMBER
3 YEARS
VOTE FOR 1
GEORGE L. EMOND, JR
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
103
85
1
73
262
96
35
131
54
42
0
34
130
52
65
73
1
38
190
80
15
95
105
89
2
68
264
340
289
4
213
846
103
0
132
331
0
92
423
ASSESSOR
3 YEARS
VOTE FOR 1
RENA E. SWEZEY
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
92
39
131
191
51
14
65
79
16
95
99
33
132
321
102
423
===PAGE 194===
BLANKS
TOTAL
CONSTABLE
3 YEARS
VOTE FOR 1
JOHN E. BAKER
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
SCHOOL COMMITTEE MEMBER
3 YEARS
VOTE FOR 2
CAROL A. ARCHAMBAULT
CYNTHIA A. DAUKANTAS
BRIAN J. LEHTINEN
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
PARK COMMISSIONER
3 YEARS
VOTE FOR 1
SUSANNA I. JEWELL
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
PARK COMMISSIONER
1 YEAR VOTE FOR 1
JOHN R. PALUMBO
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
20
131
103
28
131
96
68
66
32
262
98
33
131
97
34
131
192
13
65
52
0
13
65
39
33
40
18
130
53
52
0
65
15
95
79
0
16
82
42
48
1
17
190
79
1
15
95
83
95
28
132
106
26
132
108
63
69
1
23
264
103
1
132
100
32
132
76
423
340
83
423
325
206
223
2
90
846
333
2
88
423
332
91
423
===PAGE 195===
TOTAL
COMMISSIONER OF TRUST FUNDS
1 YEAR VOTE FOR 1
JAMES BESARKARSKI
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
CEMETERY COMMISSIONER
3 YEARS
VOTE FOR 1
NANCY FOSS YASKO
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
LIBRARY TRUSTEE
3 YEARS
VOTE FOR 2
DONNA G. SAIIA
RICHARD N. MAILLOUX
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
PLANNING BOARD MEMBER
5 YEARS
VOTE FOR 1
GREGORY P. BITTNER
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
131
96
0
35
131
96
34
131
96
96
262
89
1
41
131
193
65
54
0
11
65
51
14
65
51
54
130
54
0
11
65
95
14
95
77
18
95
79
0
30
190
79
1
15
95
132
108
24
132
103
29
132
109
107
48
264
103
1
28
132
423
339
0
84
423
327
1
95
423
337
336
173
846
325
3
95
423
===PAGE 196===
TOTAL
131
IV
65
95
132
423
PLANNING BOARD MEMBER
2 YEARS
HOUSING AUTHORITY MEMBER
5 YEARS
VOTE FOR 1
RHONDA J. LISIO
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
VOTE FOR 1
KARIN L. MENARD
ALL OTHERS
BLANKS
TOTAL
89
1
41
131
50
15
65
78
0
17
95
88
2
42
132
305
3
115
423
97
2
32
131
49
16
65
77
1
17
95
102
0
30
132
325
3
95
423
VITAL RECORDS REPORT:
AT THE RECOMMENDATION OF THE REGISTRY OF VITAL RECORDS AND U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
STATE AND FOR THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF THE RESIDENTS OF THE TOWN, NAMES OF
INDIVIDUALS HAVE BEEN ELIMINATED AND INSTEAD THE NUMBER OF OCCURANCES OF EACH
BIRTH, MARRIAGE, AND DEATH ARE TOTALLED FOR THE YEAR.
DURING 2019 THE TOWN CLERK RECORDED THE FOLLOWING:
BIRTH - 112 (and 8 for prior years)
DEATHS - 113 (and 1 for prior year)
MARRIAGES - 37
194
===PAGE 197===
ALVES-PIGEON
AMBLO
ANDERSON
ANDREWS
ANTAYA
ANTHONY
ARCIPRETE
ARCIPRETE
ARNOLD
ARO
ARSENAULT
ARSENAULT
AUBUCHON
AUGUSTA
BAJKO
BAKAYSA
BAKER
BALBONI
BANCROFT
BANKUTI
BARBIER
BARKSDALE
BARNEY
BARONE
BARRETT
BARRETT
BARRY
BASILE-OSGOOD
BASSETT
BEARDMORE
BEAUDOIN
BELAIR
BELLIVEAU
BENSON
BERGERON
BERRY
BERTONI
BERTRAND
BETTI
BIDLEMAN
BIENVENU
ALISON
DAVID
RUTH
SUSAN
KATHERINE
KRISTIN
CARRIE
SAMUEL
MEGHAN
DEBRA
BETH
JOSEPH
CHERYL
DAVID
MAUREEN
LISA
LYLE
MARABETH
SARAH
ALEXANDER
VICTORIA
CAROL
SUZANNE
JUDITH
ROBERT
JAMES
MICHAEL
ASHLEY
KRISTINE
JESSICA
ANNE
DANA
JULIE
MAYA
JOANNE
CATHLEEN
MEGAN
AMANDA
LINDA
JENNIFER
NICOLE
75,363.43
ASHLEY
THERYN
PHYLLIS
MARJORIE
ANDREW
STEVEN
PENNEY
SHERRI
BENJAMIN
KANDACE
JARROD
JASON
MARIANNE
KAROLYN
LOUIS
ELIZABETH
BROC
BUIWIT
BUNNELL
BURLINGAME
BURNEY
BURNHAM
KATHLEEN
BURR
CONSTANCE
BURROUGHS
ERINANNE
BURSCH
MARK
BUTEAU WEIGOLD JOYCE
BUTKIEWICZ
KHADIJAH
BYRNE
MICHAEL
BYRNE
FRANK
CABRERA
RAMON
CALL
SARAH
CALLAHAN
JULIA
CAMERON
CATHERINE
CAMERON
DONNA
CAMPBELL
CHERYL
CAMPBELL
BENJAMIN
195
10
14
===PAGE 198===
CAREY
CARL
CARON
CARPENTER BOWEN
CARTER-MILLER
CASSIDY
CATALINI
CAVAIOLI
CELONA
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
CHAMPAGNE
CHAPDELAINE
CHARTRAND
CHASE
CHEESMAN
CHRISTENSEN
CHRISTENSEN
CIOFFI
CLARK
CLARK
CLARKE
CLEMENT
COBLE
COHEN
COLBURN
COLE •
COLLETTE
COLLYER
COMEAU
COMEAU
CONNERY
CONNERY
CONROY
CONSIDINE
COONEY
COONEY
COONEY
CORDEIRO
CORMIER
CORMIER
CORRIGAN
EDITH
JASON
DARLENE
MONA
CHERYL
JAMES
CHRISTINE
SUSAN
DANIELLE
HEIDI
SAVANNA
SIERRA
NANCY
BRIAN
MATTHEW
ETHAN
ANDREW
SAMUEL
SUSANNE
RYAN
CHRISTOPHER
EMILY
KAITLIN
ELISABETH
RICHARD
CHARLES
PENNY
LINDA
SAMANTHA
KATHLEEN
CHRISTOPHER
SEAN
RHONDA
JONATHAN
ERIN
LAURIE
TINA
WILLIAM
KATHLEEN
MEREDITH
JESSICA
ALYSSA
COURTEMANCHE RACHEL
COWLEY
AMY
CRAIGEN
SHEILA
CUDDAHY
JAMIE
CULLINANE
STEPHEN
DACOSTA
ROBERT
DANCE
ROBIN
DAVULIS
NATALIE
DEANGELIS
TRACEY
DEBETTENCOURT CAROL
DEBETTENCOURT TIMOTHY
DEFELICE
CHRISTINE
DEMING
SALLY
DENNY-BROWN
JOHN
DIAMANTOPOULC KRISTA
ROBERT
SHAYNA
DIK
DILL
NDRA
ETTE
196
===PAGE 199===
FINCH
FINNEGAN
FLAGG
FLAGG
FLATHERS
FLYNN
FOREST
FORGUES
FORTIER
FOSTER
FOYLE
FRATTURELLI
FREEMAN
FRIEDMAN
FRIEND
GALE
GALLOWAY
GAMBERDELLA
GAMMEL
GARAMY
GARDNER
GAUDET
GAUTHIER
GEARIN
GENGLER
GENGLER
GENTILELLA
GENTILELLA
GILL-SAMMET
GIROUARD
GIULIANI
GLENNY
GODIN
GOODE
GRAVELL
GRAY
GRAY
GREBINAR
GREEN
GREENE
GRIFFIN
GRIGAS
CAROLYN
SUSAN
AUSTIN
MAKENZIE
EMILY
SHERRIE
NANCY
ELIN
JENNIFER
TODD
MARY
MICHAEL
SHERRI
MITCHEL
SAMUEL
MICHAEL
HELEN
CARL
THOMAS
ALICIA
ROBERT
CAROL
TARA
DAWN
ETHAN
PAIGE
JAMES
NICOLE
TOMMI
ROBERT
KARYN
MATTHEW
HELEN
LAURIAN
LYDIA
JACKLYN
SAMANTHA
DAWN
TERRI
FRANKLIN
ELLEN
GERALDINE
83,021.80
17,630.66
61,871.69
22,942.59
6,830.00
80,068.30
69,419.20
25,315.77
5,675.00
76,163.43
87,089.35
4,253.00
16,498.53
86,945.13
3,198.19
130.00
23,569.32
27,280.48
114,025.49
16,562.64
1,612.00
1,575.00
27,162.36
93,254.98
3,525.43
2,429.70
43,053.13
16,534.12
2,860.00
1,890.00
85,313.58
7,802.22
1,819.08
8,583.46
21,797.22
424.50
8,874.48
72,971.39
19,605.77
4,852.00
24,747.54
75.00
ПАКЕТ
HALEY
HALL
HALL
HAMAN
HAMBURGER
HANNIGAN
HANSCOM
HARE
HARGREAVES
HARMON
HARRINGTON
HARRINGTON
HAUSLER
HAYES
HEBERT
HENRY
HERRICK
HEWITT
HILL
HILL
HITCHCOCK
HLADKY
HOLMAN
HOLT
HOLT
HYATT
HYATT
HYATT
JOHNSON
JOHNSON
JONES
JONES
JONES
JONES
KARIS
KELLY
KEMP
KENNEY
KILCOMMINS
KIMMENS
KLAFT
JUDY
PAUL
AMY
GINA
JACK
ERIC
AMY
MIA
197
===PAGE 200===
KYAJOHNIAN
LACHANCE
LAFFOND
LAINE
LANDI
LARKIN
LASERTE
LAVALLEE
LAVERY
LAVIGNE
LAVOIE
LEBLANC
LEBLANC
LEBLANC
LEFEBVRE
LEGER
LEGER
LEHTO
LEKADITIS
LEMIEUX
LENOX
LEONARDO
LETARTE
LETARTE
LETARTE
LETARTE
LETENDRE
LEVASSEUR
LEVESQUE
LINCOLN
LINCOLN
LIZEK
LOISELLE
LOMBARDO
LOMBARDO
LONDA
LORDAN
LORENZEN
LORIGAN
LURIA
MACDOUGALL
STEVEN
JACOB
DEBRA
CAROLINE
MARY
NINA
SANDRA
NICOLE
LISA
COLBY
DONNA
LISA
DANIELLE
ALEXUS
BARBARA
CHRISTIN
KAYLA
EMILY
CHRISTOS
HEATHER
SAMANTHA
LORENZO
DONALD
LAWRENCE
MELONY
CHRISTOPHER
CHARLOTTE
ZACHARY
JOSEPH
PETER
DEBORAH
MAURA
MARCIE
HAILEY
KIMBERLY
JOHN
MEGAN
NADINE
ELIZABETH
PAUL
LORRAINE
MAJOR
LYNN
MALANDRINOS
STEPHEN
MALATOS
RHONDA
MALLARI
MYLEEN Y
MALLOY
JONATHAN
MANTELOW
AURIA
MANSFIELD
WHITNEY
MARABELLO
SUSAN
MARABELLO
LYNN
MARABELLO
NATALIE
MARINO
JAMES
MARINO
MARY
MARRO
MATTHEW
MARRONE
MEGHAN
MARSHALL
JANET
MARTIN
HAILEE
MARTIN
VALERIE
MARTIN
KATHLEEN
MARTINEZ
JOSE
MARTINEZ-NIEME KAELA
3llk
JOSHUA
MAY
JONATHAN
SARAH
WARREN
MCALARY
BRANDON
MCALLISTER
ALICIA
MCAULIFFE
MATTHEW
MCBRIDE
SHIRLEY
MCCARTHY-GUILL PATRICIA
MCCLUSKEY
FRANCES
MCCOLL
PATRICIA
MCCULLAH
SHARON
MCDONALD
TYREL
MCDONALD
LINDA
MCGRATH
ROBERT
MCGRAVEY
RANDALL
MCGUIGAN
JAMES
198
===PAGE 201===
MCLAUGHLIN
MCNALLY
MCNAMARA
MELANSON
MELENDY
MELNICKI
MELVIN
MENDOZA
MICHAELIDES
MIELE
MIHALICH
MIKUS
MILLER
MILLETT
MITCHELL
MITCHELL
MOBLEY
MOBLEY
MOLA
MONIZ
MONSINI
MOORE
MOORE
MOORE
MORREALE
MORRISON
MORSE
MUHNISKY
MUNROE
MURCHIE
MURPHY
MURRAY
MUTH
NADARESKI
NASH
NASS
NELSON
NG
NORMANDIN
NORMANDIN
NYGREN
JOANN
CASEY
BRADLEY
KRISTEN
JORDAN
LISA
ALLISON
ALEX
LISA
JOHN
LISA
T
PAQUETTE
PARENT
PATTURELLI
PEASE
PEDERSEN
PELKEY
PELLERIN
PELLETIER
PENNEY
ANN
PEPOLI
PERRY
PETERSEN
PETERSON
ELAINE
PETERSON-BLANK NATHANIEL
PICHARDO
MELANIE
PICHNARCIK
PATRICIA
PIERCE
JUDITH
PIERMARINI
NICOLE
PIMENTEL
LYNETTE
PINGSTERHAUS
CRAIG
PLISKA
KATHLEEN
POCHINI
JORDAN
POIRIER
JO-ANNE
PORPORA
MARGARET
PORTILLO
LAUREN
POULIOT
MELANIE
POWELL
CAILEY
PROCTOR
PEGGY
PROGIN
JOSEPH
PUNALES-SANTIACJIMENA
QUEEN
ANNETTE
QUINLIVAN
HEIDI
RABOIN
AMY
RADFORD
LYNN
RAFFAELE
AMY
RAMIREZ
MARIELYS
RANLEY
JANE
RASH
KAREN
REARDON
SUSAN
REFRIGERI
LAURA
RENZI
NORA
199
===PAGE 202===
ROBINSON
ROBUCCIO
ROBUCCIO
RODER
RODRICK
RODRIGUEZ-LOPEZ
RODRIQUENZ
ROLFE
ROMANO
ROMANO
ROSA
ROSANCRANS
ROSS
ROY
ROY
RUSSELL
RUSSELL
RYAN
RYAN
SABATINI
SALDI
SALO
SAMPSON
SAMPSON
SANTRY
SARDELIS
SAVELL
SCHKUTA
SCHNEPF
SCOGGINS
SCORSE
SCOTT
SHATTUCK
SHATTUCK
SHAW
SHEA
SHEASGREEN
SHEEHY
SHELDON
SHIELDS
SHORT
INE
TINA
JODI
ZOE
LORI
ERIC
TATA
200
===PAGE 203===
WALKER
WALKER
WALSH
WARDWELL
WARREN
WASSO PUKAITE
WATERMAN
WATSON
WELCH
WELLER
WELTON
WHIPPLE
WHITAKER
WILDER
WILLIAMS
WISE
WITHAM
WITHERS
WORKMAN
WRIGHT
WYLD
WYSER
XARRAS
XARRAS
YOUNG
YOURK
ZAMORA DE FIGUEROA
ZIVOJINOVIC
[ZRATE
KIT
JESSICA
ROBERT
CARYN
ROBIN
ALEXIS
KELLY
ELSA
JOHN
KAREN
ZACKERY
VICTORIA
MARY
KRISTINE
GARY
BRITTNI
HEATHER
MICHELLE
MICHAEL
KAYLA
LAURA
HALEY
LAURIE
ALEXANDER
MARY
TAMARA
ANGELA
DEBRA
SEAN
201
===PAGE 204===
202
===PAGE 205===
7
ASSESSORS OFFICE
8
9
BOARD OF HEALTH
10
11
BOARD OF SELECTMEN/TOWN MANAGER
12
13
BUILDING COMMISSION/ ZONING OFFICER
14
15
16
17
18
CEMETERY DEPT.
CHESTER MOSSMAN TEEN CENTER
BOYS & GIRLS CLUB OF LUNENBURG
CONSERVATION COMMISSION
19
20
COUNCIL ON AGING/SENIOR CENTER
21
22
ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR (John Biery)
23
FIRE DEPARTMENT
24
HUMAN RESOURCES
25
26
27
LIBRARY
28
29
30
PARKS COMMISSION
PLANNING BOARD
31
32
PLUMBING/GAS INSPECTOR (Gary Williams)
33
PUBLIC ACCESS CABLE
34 POLICE DEPARTMENT
35
PUBLIC WORKS
36
SEWER COMMISSION
37
TOWN CLERK
38
39
TREASURER/ COLLECTOR OFFICE
40
41
VETERANS SERVICES
42
43
44
WEIGHTS & MEASURES (Stephen Cullinane)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
45
46
MON./WED. 8 AM - 4 PM
TUES./THURS. 8 AM - 6 PM
MON./WED. 8 AM - 3 PM
TUES. 8 AM - 6 PM
MON./WED. 8 AM - 4 PM
TUES./THURS. 8 AM - 6 PM
MON./WED. 8 AM - 4 PM
TUES./THURS. 8 AM - 6 PM
MON. - FRI. 7 AM - 3 PM
MON.-FRI. 2-6 PM
MON./WED. 8 AM - 4 PM
TUES./THURS. 10 AM - 6 PM
MON. - THURS. 8 AM -5 PM
FRIDAY 8 AM - 4 PM
BY APPOINTMENT
MON.-WED. 8 AM - 4 PM
TUES. 8 AM - 5 PM
THURS. 8 AM - 6 PM
MON.- THURS. 10 AM - 8 PM
SAT. 10 AM - 2 PM
MON. -FRI. 7 AM - 3 PM
MON./WED. 8 AM - 4 PM
TUES./THURS. 8 AM - 6 PM
BY APPOINTMENT
BY APPOINTMENT
MON. - FRI. 7 AM - 3 PM
MON. - FRI. 7 AM - 3 PM
MON./WED. 8 AM - 4 PM
TUES./THURS. 8 AM - 1 PM; 3 - 6 PM
MON./WED. 8 AM - 4 PM
TUES./THURS. 8 AM - 6 PM
TUESDAYS 10 AM - 12 NOON
BY APPOINTMENT
MON./WED. 8 AM - 4 PM
TUES./THURS. 8 AM - 6 PM
978-582-4145/4164
978-582-4146 x 3
978-582-4144
978-582-4146 x 6
978-582-4160 × 7
978-582-6407
978-582-4146 × 8
978-582-4166
978-505-2461
978-582-4155
978-582-4134
978-582-4140
978-582-4160
978-582-4147
978-265-6540
617-763-3018
978-582-4531
978-582-4160
978-582-4160 x 8
978-582-4130/4131
978-582-4133
978-582-4176
978-582-8290
978-582-4146
203
===PAGE 206===

