===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TUNEMBURG
* SETI
*CORPORATED
Town of Lunenburg
Parks Commission
Commissioners
Michael Masciarelli, Chairman
Robert Robuccio
Corinne Scouten
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Meeting Minutes
October 2, 2014
7pm
Department of Public Works,
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Call to Order
Meeting convened at 7pm. In attendance were:
Commissioners: Mike Masciarelli, Bob Robuccio, Corinne Scouten
Others: Jeff Bingham, Tom Leppala, and Cliff Worthley
Review /Approve Minutes
Minutes from 8/28/14, 9/18/14, and 9/25/14 meeting were approved, 3-0.
Veterans' Park Memorial Bricks/Walkway
Cliff Worthley was present to discuss and update the commission on the progress of the brick
walkway at Veterans' Park on Memorial Drive. Cliff reports there are 82 bricks in the current
===PAGE 2===
walkway that are not yet engraved. He also reports that 80 bricks have been sold (through
Town Clerk's office). Monies for these brick sales have been deposited into the Park
Commission account and the same will be used to pay for the completed engraved bricks. The
first 40 bricks are being worked on now at Leominster Monument and the engraving should be
done by the end of October in time to be installed before Veterans' Day. Discussion about who
would install these came up. Jeff Bingham offered to look into this and Mike M. suggested
checking with Jack Rodriquenz to see if he had any DPW manpower to do this.
Comets Softball
Cliff Worthley states softball season is over. He wants to close the softball bank account by
obtaining a bank check and turning it over to the Parks Commission. He believes there is
approximately $3,000. Mark Sowerbutts is still interested in continuing this league next
summer and he is currently holding the uniforms. Typical season expenses are the registration
fee to the league, insurance fee to ASA, purchase of socks, water, ice, and soda. Umpire fees
and one game ball are provided by the league.
Lunenburg Jr. Basketball League
Cliff Worthley wishes to step away from his involvement in the Jr. Basketball program. The
program has funds in a bank account that he typically has cut the checks for. The account has
always used the town's tax ID. The bank has told Cliff that Jr. Basketball can no longer do this
and must apply for its own tax ID. There is no current Jr. Basketball Board in place but when
there was, there was always a Parks Commissioner on the board. There is a question of
insurance coverage and flow of funds. There is a website hosted by Homestead Tech. Cliff's
name is on that as well and he would like that to come off. Corinne Scouten will look into the
tax ID question and report back at the next meeting.
Track/Turf Drainage Issues
Jeff Bingham of LTAFA was at the field and noticed work being done on the new school was in
the direct proximity of a drainage system that was installed during the original building of the
track facility. This system captures rainwater in a containment system to be used for irrigation
of the lower grass practice field. He spoke to someone on-site to ask who he could talk to
regarding the status of the drainage in relation to the new school construction. He was finally
passed to School Superintendent Loxi Jo Calmes who told Jeff he needed to provide a plan. Jeff
===PAGE 3===
came to this meeting with the plan from Steve Marsden. Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director, needs
to be brought into this and therefore Mike M. will talk to him with plan in hand.
Turf Field Fees and Other
Jeff Bingham was asked to look into LTAFA collecting the 2013 fees for the turf use from both
LYSA and Bengals as this did not happen as it had in year's past.
What are we as a commission going to do about the 2014 fees? 2014 Spring users should pay
as they have in the past. More discussion needed on the Fall 2014 use. LYSA has been using an
off-site location. Bengals use has been less. Most of the use has been by the school. The
school has had custodians cleaning the bathrooms. A generator has been in place for the lights,
scoreboard, and concession/bathrooms.
What is coming in the Spring for use? Will Lacrosse be there? Will LYSA be back?
Turf Maintenance - A $5,000 5 year maintenance contract was purchased in June 2008. In
2012 seams were glued. We will need to review the upkeep and any needed maintenance after
the winter.
Adjourn
Motion to adjourn meeting was made and seconded. Vote in favor of adjournment 3-0.
Time adjourned was 8:50pm.
Minutes Accepted on: 10/30/14
Mike Masciarelli min
Robert Robuccio
Corinne Scouten
Ces
