===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Robert Robuccio, Chairman Re
Michael Mascarei M0.M1
Douglas M. McQuaid
Town of Lunenburg
Park Department
SACKBURG,
,MASS,
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Meeting Minutes
Thursday, May 8, 2014 - 7:00 PM
DPW - 520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Meeting convened at 7 o'clock, member's present commissioners Bob Robuccio, Mike Maciarelli and Doug
McQuaid. Jack Rodiquenz, Dan Proctor and Cliff Worhtly.
Commissioners approved meeting minutes from 4/3/2014. Vote 3-0.
• Dan Proctor presented a list of Little League projects to the commission. Projects include new dugouts
at McNally Field and the Softball Field. Future plan to fill in area around the T-Ball field for more
parking.
• Jack presented the commission and Little League with a project document to ensure that all
contributions for projects are documented. Document is available at the DPW office. Jack was also
concerned that work and resources were duplicating activities which could put a strain on our finances.
Little League has agreed to keep the commission and DPW informed in the future.
Jack also informed the commission that the construction of the new Parking Area off Chestnut St will
begin in early July. This project should alleviate the congestion on the street during baseball games.
• Cliff Worthy attended the meeting and reviewed the Jr Basketball invoice for school usage. Deposited a
$2,000 check to the revolving account. Commission voted 3-0 to appropriate the funds for the usage of
the school facilities.
• Public Comment: Jack and Mike brought up concerns after a recent new school building committee
meeting which has a 16 foot access road running between the snack bar and the turf field. The concern
was that this may not be enough room in this small area to support such a road. The Park Commission
has no jurisdiction over this area, which is located on school property but has agreed to send a letter to
document our concerns.
During the same school building meeting John Londa and the school dept wants to relocate the "red
garage to the track and field facility. The commission and the DPW director is against this move and
has also agreed to inform the school dept that this move is un-acceptable. The Park Commission will
advise the school dept to find a new location to place the garage.
===PAGE 2===
Next scheduled meeting Thursday June 19"h 7:00 pm @ DPW.
Meeting adjourned at 9:05
