===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TUNENBURG
,MASS,
728
Town of Lunenburg
Parks Commission
Commissioners
Michael Masciarelli, Chairman
Robert Robuccio
Corinne Scouten
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Meeting Minutes
January 22, 2015
7pm
Department of Public Works,
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Call to Order
Meeting convened at 7:02pm. In attendance were:
Commissioners: Mike Masciarelli, Bob Robuccio, and Corinne Scouten
Review/Approve Minutes
Motion was made to approve minutes. Motion was seconded and minutes were approved 3-0.
Marshall Parking Lot Update
DPW Director - Jack Rodriquenz was unable to attend and provide an update this evening.
Turf Fees/Usage
Two bills - one for Lunenburg Bengals and one for LYSA (soccer) were reviewed by the
commissioners prior to sending. Both bills reflected $10,000 for the prior two years field use
===PAGE 2===
(2013 & 2014) that were not previously billed. The Bengals bill can be send to Bob Coppenrath
- Bengals President and the LYSA bill can be sent to the LYSA Treasurer.
Question: Is the school current through the 2014 school year? Bob Robuccio will get an
accounting from Karen Brochu at Town Hall to review.
Corinne Scouten will bring a sample template of a User Fee Schedule to the next meeting. She
raised the question of how will the Commission monitor who is using the fields and when.
Some type of schedule needs to be set up and maintained in order to track use. There should
be signage placed at the turf to direct people who to call or email to reserve.
Mike Masciarelli reviewed with the commissioners the hours of usage the different groups from
town have used the turf: LYSA - 353 hrs, Adult Soccer - 20 hrs, Truax Conditioning Camp - 12.5
hrs, Sports Camp - 24 hrs, Miscellaneous - 20 hrs. This does not include school or school
team's usage.
Bob Robuccio stated that he has been unable to find out about the MIAA playoff games and
how we can collect our user fees for those games. Apparently the MIAA won't talk to anyone
but high school principals. Mike Masciarelli will talk to Brian Spadafino and find out what he
can.
Concession Stand Fees/Usage
The Music Aiders sent in $300 for 6 uses of the concession stand during the fall football season.
Mike Masciarelli signed off on the receipt. Corinne Scouten noted that she was asked (via
email) if the music aiders could be provided a key so they don't have to track down someone
every time they need to get in. Consensus is that we don't want to hand out keys - but could
have a central pick up location - maybe Corinne's house.
Key/ Other Park Properties
Mike Masciarelli stated that we need to find out where other keys are for all of the different
gates and/or buildings on our Park properties. He believes all gates at Marshall have the same
key. The Commission should have a master key set kept at the DPW.
Corinne Scouten is the only Commissioner that does not have a key to the DPW at this time.
Fuel Bill
The Commission was presented with a fuel bill. What is this bill for? Jack Rodriquenz will have
to be asked to explain.
Other
Mike Masciarelli reported that Rhonda Malatos, Phys. Ed. Teacher at the high school unofficially
approached him and would like to hold a Ping Pong Tournament and asked if the Park
===PAGE 3===
Commission would like to sponsor. Commissioners did not want to entertain this idea and will
no official request, no action was needed. Perhaps this is an activity the Teen Center could co-
sponsor with her and benefit them as well.
Adjourn
Motion to adjourn meeting was made and seconded. Vote in favor of adjournment 3-0.
Time adjourned was 8:04pm.
Minutes Accepted on: 2/26/15
Mike Masciarelli
Robert Robuccio
Corinne Scouten
ces
