===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MASS +
CORPORAT
Town of Lunenburg
Parks Commission
Commissioners
Michael Masciarelli, Chairman
Robert Robuccio
Corinne Scouten
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Meeting Minutes
February 26, 2015
7pm
Department of Public Works,
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Call to Order
Meeting convened at 7:02pm. In attendance were:
Commissioners: Bob Robuccio and Corinne Scouten
LYSA Representative: Stephanie Quinn (150 Houghton's Mill Rd, Lunenburg)
Review / Approve Minutes
Motion was made to approve minutes. Motion was seconded and minutes were approved 2-0.
Turf Fees/Usage
Following the emailing of the Turf Use bills to LYSA and the Bengals, both organizations replied
back questioning the bills and how the amounts were arrived at. Emails were received from
Amy Arpano/Bengals and Karin Menard/LYSA.
===PAGE 2===
Stephanie Quinn, in attendance at tonight's meeting was able to tell the commission that LYSA
had made their last payment, to and as per their agreement with LTAFA, in November of 2012.
Ms. Quinn wanted to know if we could provide a basis for the amounts we were charging
stating that they had no agreement with the Parks Commission that they were aware of.
Robuccio stated that we issued the bills based upon the best information we had regarding past
payment history and that the commission would be more than willing to have LYSA provide us
with an estimate of hours they felt they actually used the turf (they were bumped by both the
Bengals and the school multiple times) and then work out an agreement from there.
Bob Robuccio suggests that all three groups - Bengals, LYSA, and the school sit with the Park
Commission to talk about usage both past and future. Field availability will continue to be an
issue until the new school facility is complete.
Ms. Quinn also asked about availability of other fields around town - the outfield at Marshall?
What is available? Is the Park Commission thinking of finding any other field space which is
lacking? Park Commission response - at this time - no search is occurring and the outfield at
Marshall is unavailable in the spring due to heavy baseball use/schedule. LYSA is searching for
out of town fields to play on.
Bob Robuccio obtained several years of account printouts from the town accountant in order to
try to determine and track the payments received for turf use. Further clarity is needed to
understand many of the entries on these reports. Perhaps we can have Jack Rodriquenz or the
town accountant sit with us and go through the entries to explain.
Adjourn
Motion to adjourn meeting was made and seconded. Vote in favor of adjournment 2-0.
Time adjourned was 8:00pm.
Minutes Accepted on: 3/26/15
Mike Masciarelli
Robert Robuccio_
Corinne Scouten
ces
