===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MASS
IHCOBOB
Town of Lunenburg
Parks Commission
Commissioners
Michael Masciarelli, Chairman
Robert Robuccio
Corinne Scouten
Meeting Minutes
March 26, 2015
7pm
Department of Public Works,
520 Chase Road, Lunenburg, MA 01462
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Call to Order
Meeting convened at 7:01pm. In attendance were:
Commissioners: Mike Masciarelli, Bob Robuccio and Corinne Scouten
DPW Director - Jack Rodriquenz and Director of Public Facilities at Lunenburg Public Schools -
John Londa
Review /Approve Minutes
Motion was made to approve minutes. Motion was seconded and minutes were approved 3-0.
Executive Session
DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz requested a short executive session regarding Marshall Parking
Lot issue. The three commissioners voted in favor of recessing into a short executive session
at 7:03pm. Mr. Londa excused himself during this time. Executive Session ended at 7:25pm
and Mr. Londa returned.
===PAGE 2===
Marshall Parking Lot
Mr. Rodriquenz presented updated plans for the parking lot project at Marshall. The commissioners
reviewed and vote in favor 3-0 to accept the plans as designed from Ducharme and Dillis.
Marshall Baseball Fields
Snow clearing took place at Marshall. Fields are almost ready. Adult coaches in charge can use their
own judgment as to when that is. Mr. Rodriquenz stated stone dust will be laid. Mike Masciarelli stated
the gate in center field (softball) is collapsed. DPW will fix.
Budgets
The commissioners requested a budget breakdown and explanation of expenses from DPW Director.
Mr. Rodriquenz will get this information to them.
Turf Fees
Mr. John Londa was present to aid in the discussion of turf fees. The electricity will be coming from the
new school once on line. This will save a separate and very expensive demand cost. Mr. Londa has
some historical data that he can pull to help the commission determine an electric charge for the fee
schedule. He hopes to see the tie in before April 7t. Mr. Londa will prepare a proposal of his thoughts
on how to set up the lights fees.
Tennis Camp
Mr. Londa asked about the tennis camp being offered again this summer. They state they are a Park
sponsored activity yet the website they are using does not show fees as being payable to the town. The
www.sites.google.com/site/youthtennisclub. Mr. Robuccio said the money in fact is
deposited through the town. The commissioners will follow up with Sandy Laserte and Justin Sparks
who run the camp.
Next Meetings
Suggest two meetings in April. April 15th - Gen Nass would like to come and discuss weed issue at Town
Beach. April 29th - Marshall Parking Lot Issue - invite all interested/involved parties.
Adjourn
Motion to adjourn meeting was made and seconded. Vote in favor of adjournment 3-0.
Time adjourned was 8:34pm.
Minutes Accepted on: 411545
Mike Mascare a hi
Robert Robuccio PR
Corinne Scouten _
ces
