===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
Dennis Mannone, Chairman
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pete McCauliff, Member
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Approved
8118/16
MINUTES
Thursday July 21, 2016 - 7:00 PM
Department of Public Works Building
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 1 5 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1. Call to Order - 7:00pm
Attendance: Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone, Pete McCauliff, Town Manager Kerry
Lafleaur, Superintendant Loxi Jo Calmes, Gen Nass.
2.
Review Minutes
1.
2.
June 22, 2016 Minutes - approved 2-0 (DM/KM)
July 19, 2016 Minutes - approved 2-0 (DM/KM)
3.
Town Manager Updates - Verizon Wireless plan to build cell tower is moving along and
will be filing special permit to build tower. This will take time but she is anticipating
rental fees for tower to begin coming in this fiscal year.
4.
Old Business
a. Turf Complex - Pete McCauliff gave update on timeline. Explained that the
process was considerably more demanding than expected. Working with out-
side agencies to draw up plan to go out to bid. Mr. McCauliff is hopeful for a late
August start date and estimates 3-4 weeks for completion of turf and 3-4 days
for completion of track once started. Town Manager reported that information is
being provided to bond council for financing and they are reviewing agreements
to determine which interest rate we will fall under.
b. Town Beach
i. Gen Nass reports that the season is going well and there has been high atten-
dance. First session of swimming lessons coming to and end and the second
session starting next week. Trash has not been picked up on a regular basis and
it needs to be as there are only three barrels at the beach and although they are
only filling one or so a week, they are getting full and need to be emptied. Karin
Menard stated she would contact DPW and request regular pick up.
===PAGE 2===
ii. Kerry LaFleur updated the commission and Gen Nass on the hiring proce-
dures of the town. Any position, whether seasonal as needed or otherwise
needs to be posted and the formal hiring procedure needs to be followed per
town charter. At this time, the request and subsequent approval of hiring a part
time as needed lifeguard has been tabled due to time lines and upcoming end to
the beach season. We should be looking to be hiring for the summer beach sea-
son in April or May. Kerry also stated that the current conflict of interest laws
are tougher now and that she has an opinion from labor council that an employ-
ee can not be supervised by a relative. She said Nancy Forest is up to speed on
seasonal employment and could provide information on the process. Karin
asked how the hiring process works for seasonal positions as the same life
guards seem to automatically come back season after season. Kerry explained
that the Parks Commission should reappoint people on a yearly basis. Dennis
added that we need to create a review process in the off season and that the
beach should be on the agenda over the winter for review of policies, proce-
dures and fees.
ili. Gen Nass requested permission for the Parks Commission to sponsor the
Card Board Boat Race. She said that the race has become a popular event dur-
ing the summer but the new children's librarian, who has organized it in the past,
is not organizing it this year. Since the event has always happened at the beach
and staffed with lifeguards, she wanted to know if it was possible to organize it
with the approval of the Parks Commission.
Motion made by Karin Menard, seconded by Pete McAulliff - for the Parks
Commission to Sponsor the Card Board Boat Race - approved 3-0.
iv. Gen said the current plan is for the beach to close on August 14th but she
would like to extend the season, due to the great weather and the high atten-
dance, to August 19th. Karin pointed out that without the DPW director present
that she wasn't sure if there was enough funds in the budget to cover it.
Motion made by Karin Menard seconded by Dennis Mannone to extend the
beach season through August 19th pending confirmation of available funds with
the DPW director. passed 3-0.
c. Marshall Park
i. Kerry provided background that the FY15 Capital Plan approved a park
ing lot at Marshall Park off of Chestnut Street. Due to a series of events and the
vendor doing the work was available sooner than expected and that no letter
went out to abutters before work started. As soon as work started, an abutter
contacted the town stating work had been done on her land. Work was halted
and the town worked with the abutter to mediate boundary issue as there was a
===PAGE 3===
conflict between the towns deed and the abutters deed. There is a warrant arti-
cle for the Special Town Meeting in August, that in a nut shell would use the
stone wall as the boundary marker, not require remediation of work done on
abutters side of the wall and allow Parks and the DPW to decide what to do on
the town side.
Motion by Pete McCauliff and seconded by Dennis Mannone to support the
town creating a boundary agreement with the adjacent property owner a town
meeting. Passed 3-0.
ii. Pete McCauliff said he joined the DPW director and other interested parties at
the Chestnut Street field for a brief presentation on the plan to install a netted backstop that
would help eliminate damage being caused by foul balls. He had no concerns that it would
negatively impact games held at that field enough to be concerned. The DPW director was not
in attendance but Pete said that he was continuing to work on it.
d. Usage fees - topic passed over.
5. New Business
a. Policy discussion, scheduling of fields, courts and beaches under the Park
Commission umbrella
i. Scheduling of turf field will remain with the Athletic Director until turf/
track project completed this fall.
ii. Pete McCauliff stated that due to the turf resurfacing and the shortage
of fields due to continuing demolition/construction, Lunenburg Public
Schools would like to request use of Marshall Park for some of their sports pro-
grams. Currently, there are no other requests for usage so there are no sched-
uling conflicts at this time.
Motion made by Dennis Mannone / Seconded by Karin Menard - Approve short
term usage of Marshall Park (Chestnut Street field) by Lunenburg Public Schools
for fall sports programs. Approved 2-0 (PM abstained from voting)
ill. Brief discussion on timing of policy creation for fields and beaches that fall
under the park commission umbrella. Parks Commissioners all agree that this
will be a lengthy process best dealt with in the upcoming months.
6. Other business
a. no unanticipated items
b. no correspondence or announcements.
Motion to adjourn 9:01 by Karin Menard seconded by Pete McAuliff.
