===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Dennis Mannone, Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pete McCauliff
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
RG
MAST
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
INCORPORA
MEETING MINUTES
November 17, 2016
7:00 pm
DPW
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
1. Called to order by Dennis at 7pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone, Pete McCauliff
2. Review Minutes
a. September 22, 2016 - Dennis Mannone motioned to accept minutes and Karin Menard seconded.
Approval passed 3-0.
b: October 20, 2016 - Dennis Mannone motioned to accept minutes and Pete McCauliff seconded. Ap-
proval passed 3-0.
3) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - not present
4) Ongoing Business
a. Leominster Lacrosse Turf Request - Trent Larson and Chuck Courtemarche were present to repre-
sent Leominster Youth Lacrosse. Chuck explained that a good number of players in their program
were from Lunenburg and some teams were comprised 100% of Lunenburg kids so it made sense
to be looking in the Lunenburg area for field space. Trent explained that they are currently using
Doyle but due to the growth of their program they would like to split between locations and that if
they could use the turf in Lunenburg there would be 6 games tops each Sunday for 8 Sundays.
Pete said that there are two things that wear the field - sun and usage - but felt that 8 Sundays
would not make or break us and it might be a good test run. Trent relayed that the pricing structure
that Karin sent to Larry Cordio, club president, earlier in the fall was too steep for them and they
are hoping to work out a deal for $100/hour or $600 a day preferably less. Pete said it would be
$28+ an hour for a field monitor but that he thought we would be able to work out $6300 for the 8
===PAGE 2===
weeks (56 hours/$112.50hr/minimum 3 hours). He also told Trent and Chuck, and reminded the
rest of the commission, that the turf would be resurfaced in the Spring which may bump them one
weekend. Karin asked when the schedules come out since exact usage would depend on their
game needs. Trent said teams are firmed up by the end of February and games, which start the first
week of April, are solid by mid March. Trent and Chuck would take this information back to their
group and get back to us.
b. Turf Complex Update and Discussion - Pete advised the the turf is finished and that temporary
lines are painted. Track will be resurfaced in the spring. The materials have been paid for and the
installation is outstanding as he is asking for clarification on what still needs to be done before he
does so. The labor for the track is also included in the bill he received but he said that won't be
paid until the work is done. There are also extra pellets and turf that will also need to be stored in
case it is needed in the future for repairs.
c. Continuation of policy / procedure discussions, fees and scheduling of fields, courts and beaches
under the Parks Commission umbrella - Form is coming together for field usage. Karin will work
on creating an in-town youth group form for the groups that pay per player (i.e. Lunenburg Little
League) or have a financial agreement with the town (i.e. Bengals and LYSA). Dennis also would
like to ask Amanda to put together some sort of cost schedule so we can compare it to the current
Lunenburg Little League per player fee that they are currently paying. Karin said she would con-
tact Amanda and get back to the commission with the information.
5) Other Business
a. Unanticipated items - none
b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment - non
6) Next meeting January 19, 2017.
7) Motion to adjourn by Karin Menard at 8:47, seconded by Dennis Mannone - 3-0 to adjourn.
