===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
matio on
Dennis Mannone, Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
ffme
Pete McCauliff, Member
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA
MINUTES
Thursday, August 18, 2016
7pm
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
1) Call to Order - 7:05
Attendance: Pete McCauliff, Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone, Gen Nass, Jack Rodriquenz
2) Review Minutes
July 21, 2016 - approved 3-0 (motion DM, second KM)
3) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates
a) Hannaford used small fields at Marshall Park for a charity event the previous week end. Event had
been approved last spring.
b) Liability of playground (Marshall Park, McNally Field, Fitzgerald Field, Wallis Park and Town Beach)
has become a concern. Jack Rodriquenz will look at all playgrounds and remove equipment that is of
concern and no longer meet safety guidelines.
4) Ongoing Business
a) Turf Complex - discussion and update
i) Bids being opened August 19th. Construction time line will be confirmed for next meeting once
bids are opened.
ii) Bengals are currently using grass and turf currently. Still need to collect from 2015 season
that was invoiced in July. Pete will work with them on prices for this season and to obtain pay-
ment for 2015 season.
===PAGE 2===
P9 2 of 2
8/18/16
minutes
b) Town Beach
i) Gen - boat race went excellent - six boats entered. Looking forward to next year.
ii) High attendance on the extra days that extended the season. Official last day is 8/19.
iii) Gen Nass is concerned with lack of adherence to the speed limit by beach. KM referred her
back to the LPD as the road is out of Parks Commission jurisdiction.
iv) Fees need to be looked at late winter. Approximately $4,790 was collected in tag sales and
$1,000 for swim lessons.
V) Dennis suggests Gen Nass create a job description, to have on file, for the position of Town
Beach Director.
c) Marshall Park
i) Backstop is still ongoing. Slow going, first purchase order in, won't be done for start of fall.
d) Wallis Park
i) Rubbish -cash and carry not necessarily working at wallis. Give it another season.
5) New Business
a) Request from Leominster Lacrosse for use of Turf Complex Spring 2017 - to move forward more in-
formation is needed. KM will contact them for the hours and number of spectators.
b) Parks Commission section on town website - Karin will contact IT Director to update the Parks
Commission page.
c) Policy discussion, fees, scheduling of fields, courts and beaches under the ParkCommission
Umbrella. - held for September meeting.
6) Other Business
a) Unanticipated items - none
b) Correspondence and Announcements / Public Comment -
i) Lions Club had brought to KM's attention that they had a fire truck refurbished that they want
ed placed at the Beach Playground. Jack Rodriquenz has some concern whether this is the ap-
propriate location as it could easily be stolen. Jack will work with them to come up with a loca-
tion.
7) Upcoming meeting schedule - next meeting scheduled for September 15, 2016 @ 7pm.
8) Adjournment
Motion to adjourn 9:16 KM motion/ PM second - 3-0
