===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
repproved
Town of Lunenburg
Park Department
Dennis Mannone
Karin Menard
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Meeting Minutes
Thursday, June 22, 2016 - 7:00 PM
DPW
Lunenburg, MA 01462
1) Call to Order - 7:06
Attendance: Dennis Mannone, Karin Menard, Jack Rodriquenz, Gen Nass
2) June 2, 2016 Minutes - Approved 2-0
3) Board Reorganization - Chair: Dennis Mannone, Clerk: Karin Menard
4) Turf Complex Update and Discussion - Town Manager is working with bond council. Project
timing is up in the air and may be started over the Summer. More information will be forthcom-
ing. Memorandum of Agreement between schools and Parks Commission will need to be dis-
cussed and tweaked in the future.
5) Town Beach - Gen Nass, Beach Director
a) Reviewed Christians Law (Massachusetts General Law c. 111, §127A½)- allows for in
fants, toddlers and those below a level III in Red Cross to wear life jackets while partici-
pating in "municipal and recreational programs and camps". Question surrounding
whether or not the town beach falls under these guidelines as we are neither a program or
a camp. Parks Commissioners will review law and Gen Nass's proposal.
b) Weeds have continued to thrive in the roped swim area. There is currently no weed
control on the lake or within roped area. Too late for action this season but we can re-
search for next year and can preliminarily contact Conservation Commission to see if
they need to be involved. Lake Shirley Improvement Corporation uses Solitude (contact:
Dominic Meringold) and they might be a good place to start the research.
===PAGE 2===
c) Board of Health requesting access to town beach when not opened for water quality
testing. Per Jack Rodriquenz, they just need to call the office and someone from the
DPW will go down and open the gate when requested.
d) Fees and Schedule - Current family fees start at $40 for beach passes and Swim
Lessons are capped at $30 per family per session. Fees have not been looked at in many
years. Beach has historically been open for 8 weeks, closing a week or two before school
starts. Thought should be given as to whether we should extend to a 9 week season
startinging in 2017. Since the summer season is already upon us, discussion was tabled
on both matters until the winter.
e) Request for an on call, as needed, life guard be hired in case one of their regular full or
part time life guards are unable to work their shift. Ms. Nass recommends hiring her
grandson, Ethan Gengler, for this position. Ms. Nass also forwarded a letter of disclosure
as advised by the Ethics Commission as well as the Disclosure by Non Elected Municipal.
Employee of Financial Interest and Determination by Appointing Authority form.
Motion made by Dennis Mannone / Seconded Karin Menard - Approve as presented
hiring of an as needed part time seasonal employee to cover life guard duties. Approved -
2-0
6) Marshall Park Update
a) Per Jack Rodriquenz nothing to report on parking lot
b) Waiting on Surfside gave quote but waiting on sketch. Only group that we know of
using the main field on Chestnut are Babe Ruth (approximately 6 practices). Temporary
decision to halt games and batting tunnel required for practices is still in place.
7) DPW Director Update - Waiting on checks for usage fees from the Bengals and Little League.
8) Public / Board Comment - Bob Robuccio resigned from the Parks Commission effective
6/22/16
Adjournment 9:00
Next Meeting - July 21, 2016 at 7pm.
