===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
Dennis Mannone, Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pete McCauliff
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
spe
RECEIVED & FILED
NOV 2 3 2016
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
MEETING MINUTES
September 22, 2016
7pm
DPW
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
1) Call to Order - 7:01
Attendance - Pete McCauliff, Dennis Mannone, Karin Menard, Jack Rodriquenz.
2) Motion to approve Minutes of August 18, 2016 made by Karin Menard, seconded by Dennis Mannone-
approved 3-0
3) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - Fitzgerald Field has been used by a team for fall ball. Not
sure who they are but Jack will investigate to see which organization they are with. He will also follow
up with Steve Chow regarding Fall Little League. There has been some concern regarding playground
equipment meeting current standards. In order to investigate further, photographs should be taken to
forward to someone with expertise in this area to determine next steps. Karin will photograph and email
photographs to Jack.
4) Ongoing Business
a) Turf Complex - discussion and update
i. Pete updated that RAD will be starting demolition on Tuesday. Rubber is to be deliv-
ered early October and they are hoping about a 2 week job. Once turf is removed they
will be able to give a better timeline. Dennis asked about field lines and Pete responded
that RAD will put all necessary lines on the field. Track will be done as soon as turf is
completed. No games scheduled until both are completed.
ii. Leominster Lacrosse responded with email with more details about their request to use
the turf for their LAX program in the Spring of 2017. Per email of 8/18 that was sent to
Karin, Larry Cordio, Leominster Lacrosse President said they are requesting use of the
turf April 2nd, 9th, 23rd, 30th, May 7th, 14th, 21st and June 14th, 2017. They expect to
play between 4 and 8 games per Sunday for both their girls and boys teams. This trans-
lates to 125-250 players per Sunday and he estimates 300-600 spectators or so. These
===PAGE 2===
dates are their regular season games. Discussion amongst commissioners to determine a
price structure followed.
Motion made by Karin Menard, seconded by Dennis Mannone - to allow Leominster
Lacrosse to use the turf field for 8 Sundays at a rate of $7500 for the season. Additional
expense for field attendant (set up and clean up) which is estimated at $25-$50 per hour
as well as police detail at the discretion of Lunenburg PD to be the responsibility of
Leominster Lacrosse. passed 3-0
5) New Business
a) request from local Triple Play team for Marshall Park usage - Arthur Thibeault, coach for the
Lunenburg Iriple Play team contacted both Dennis and Karin about using Marshall Park (Chest-
nut Street field). Dennis believes they are looking for Wednesdays. Pete said Field Hockey is
using the field this fall for their practices and he would have to wait until Field Hockey is over to
begin theirs. They are there M-F and possibly a Saturday. Discussion continued about pricing.
Motion made by Karin Menard, seconded by Dennis Mannone to allow Triple Play Fall Baseball
to use Marshall Park at a rate of $25 per hour: Insurance certificate must be provided prior to
first practice. Schedule needs to be passed through PM to cross reference availability. passed
3-0.
b) Policy/procedure discussion, fees, and scheduling of fields, courts and beaches under
the Parks Commission umbrella.
Development of field request form started. Reviewed policies and permit applications of other
towns and created a list of what we felt was needed for Lunenburg's field usage.
Dennis asked Jack if he could provide an analysis of the costs to maintain the fields so we could
better understand the yearly maintenance and upkeep fees. Jack said he would research and get
the information to us at a future meeting.
Currently we are charging Lunenburg Little League $10 per player per season. Karin will request
more information from Steve Chow, Lunenburg Little League President, for their participation
numbers so we can better gage the fees.
Karin will take the information we discussed and create a policy and application document that.
we can review at our next meeting.
6) Other Business
a) No unanticipated items
b) No Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment
7) Next meeting: October 20, 2017.
8) Motion for adjournment made at 8:31 by Karin Menard, seconded by Pete McCauliff. passed 3-0:
