===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
-
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
TEL
Dennis Mannone, Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pete McCauliff
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
INCORPORA
MINUTES
June 15, 2017
7:00 pm
DPW
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
1) Dennis Mannone called the meeting to order at 7:02pm. Attendance: Dennis Mannone, Karin
Menard, Pete McCauliff, Jack Rodriquenz.
2) Reorganization of Committee:
Dennis Mannone motioned for Karin Menard to remain as clerk. Pete McCauliff
seconded - Approved 3-0
Karin Menard motioned for Dennis Mannone to remain as Chair. Pete McCauliff
seconded - 3-0
3) Review Minutes from May 10, 2017 - Dennis Mannone motioned to accepted the minutes
form May 10, 2017. Karin Menard seconded. Approved 3-0.
4) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - Jack updated the commission that there has been no
movement on the installation of the netting at the 90' diamond by Surfside Pool. Temporary net-
ting still in place.
5) Ongoing Business
a) Turf Complex Update and Discussion - Pete said the track was resurfaced last
Thursday and that the contractor went above and beyond. Lining of the track should
happen next week. There was flooding on one corner of the turf and he has been in
contact with the installer to remedy.
b) Town Beach - Summer Hiring and Policies and Procedures discussion -
i. Karin updated the commission that we received 1 applicant for Beach
Coordinator and 4 applicants for Lifeguards. Gen Nass was also present and said
she spoke with the Ethics Commission last week and has the needed documenta
tion updated on the conversation with the Ethics Commission and has filled out
the needed paperwork which she provided to the commission and the Town
===PAGE 2===
Manager.
Karin Motioned motioned and Dennis Mannone seconded - to recommend
appointment of Gen Nass (Beach Coordinator), Liz Simeone (Lifeguard), Catie
Keefer (Lifeguard), Lynn Major (Lifeguard) and Cheryl Shaw (Lifeguard) -
Approved 3-0.
Karin Menard will forward names to Town Manager to be presented to the Board
of Selectman for appointment at their next meeting.
ii. Karin pointed out that the commission overlooked continuing with a Senior
rate for beach passes. Senior passes have always been offered and with a number
of Senior residents on fixed incomes, it would be a good idea to continue.
Dennis Mannone motioned to continue with a $20 Senior Beach Pass. Pete
McCauliff seconded. Approved 3-0.
ili. Gen Nass provided information on swim lessons offered at the town beach.
She said it was hard to gage how many to expect in each grouping but she expects
about 50 children in each session. Lesson fees had not been increased in over 10
years. Karin expressed concern that the current fees were not covering the cost of
operating the program. Katie Adams, Lunenburg resident, expressed concern over
the timing and urged the committee to not make too drastic of an increase as many
families have already planned this expense at the current rate into their budget.
Karin Menard motioned to change swim lesson fees to $20 per child with a family
cap of $60 regardless of residency per session. Pete McCauliff seconded.
Approved 3-0
iv. Non Resident passes - Commission had voted to allow non resident passes at
the last meeting. Karin thought it would be a good idea to cap the number of non
residents allowed. Katie Adams pointed out her concern that allowing a large
number of non residents may change the safe community environment that they
beach currently has. The commission agreed.
Dennis Mannone motioned to cap non resident rates at 25 TOTAL passes - family
or individual. Pete McCauliff seconded. Approved 3-0
v. Gen Nass asked Jack about the grading/adding of the sand at the beach. Jack
explained that he had spoken to Rich Bursch and Matt Marrow from the
Conservation Commission and was told they could grade but not add sand until it
was approved by the Conservation Commission. He will add fresh sand once its
approved.
===PAGE 3===
vi. Karin would like Nancy to repost the Seasonal Lifeguard positions for a back
up lifeguard as some of the lifeguards had limited availability. All agreed. Karin
Will contact Nancy to have the position reposted.
vii. Beach closing date. Per Gen, typically the beach closes the weekend before
school starts which will be August 27th this year.
Dennis Mannone motioned to close the Town Beach on August 27, 2017. Pete
McCauliff seconded. Approved 3-0.
c) General Field Updates and Discussion - none
d) Wallis Park Update and Discussion - none
e) Continuation of policy / procedure discussions, fees and scheduling of fields, courts
and beaches under the Parks Commission umbrella - none
6) New Business
a) Grass Annex - fee adjustment request - Dale Diamontopolos (Lunenburg Sports Camp)
emailed the commission that field conditions are not satisfactory would like to pay hourly
rate vs. the per camper rate the commission approved last meeting. Commission agreed.
Karin Menard motioned to change the charge for Sports camp from $10 per camper to
$25 per hour. Pete McCauliff seconded. Approved 3-0.
b) Certificate of Insurance requirements - Karin updated the commission on the Col
requirements. All Col's must be forwarded to Nancy Forest to keep on file in case an ||
issue arises.
c) Memorandum of Agreement with Lunenburg Public Schools - tabled due to time.
7) Other Business
a) Unanticipated items - none
b) Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment - Katey Adams, Lunenburg
Resident, expressed concern that the Commission was taking action on swim lesson fees
so close to the season opening. Jack explained that last minute wasn't the intention of the
commission but with years of catch up to do to get everything in order this was the timing
for this year. Karin explained that she hopes to have it on the agenda early Spring next
year as well as the hiring of beach staff as there was no wiggle room this year at all.
8) Upcoming meeting schedule - July 13, 2017
9) Motion to adjourn at 9:08pm by Dennis Mannone, seconded by Karin Menard. Approved 3-0.
....
