===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
ENBURG
Dennis Mannone, Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pete McCauliff
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
CREATS *
CORPORA
Meeting Minutes
February 16, 2017
RECEIVED & FILED
AUG 1 5 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1) Call to Order - 7:00pm Attendance: Dennis Mannone, Pete McCauliff, Karin Menard
2) Review Minutes from January 19, 2017- Karin motioned and Pete seconded to accept minutes
of January 19, 2017. Approved 3-0.
3) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - none
4) Ongoing Business
a. Leominster Lacrosse Turf Request - Karin informed the committee that she has heard
from Leominster Youth Lacrosse and they would like to move forward with an
agreement for Spring 2017 usage. Committee reviewed usage agreement and dis-
cussed Certificate of Insurance requirements. Karin will follow up with Town Man-
ager Heather Lemieux to verify that the insurance amounts are acceptable.
Motion made by Karin Menard to approve usage agreement form for Leominster
Youth Lacrosse and to send to their organization pending verification of insurance
requirements. Dennis Mannone seconded. Approved 3-0.
b. Turf Complex Update and Discussion - Pete said the company sent an updated bill
for only work completed to date. Completion of the track will be weather dependent
and turf and track will need to be off line for about a week to do the work.
c. Memorandum of Agreement with Lunenburg Public Schools - tabled until future
meeting due to time constraints.
===PAGE 2===
d. Town Beach - Summer Staff Hiring - Karin informed the committee that she spoke
with Heather Lemieux and confirmed that the proper procedure for hiring seasonal
employees was to post the position. Committee will create a job description at the
next meeting.
e. Continuation of policy / procedure discussions, fees and scheduling of fields, courts
and beaches under the Park Commission umbrella.
i. Karin presented two forms for committee approval - FACILITY REQUEST
FOR YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS WITH PAY FOR PLAYER / SEASON-
AL AGREEMENTS and FACILITY REQUEST AND PERMIT APPLICA-
TION FOR SHORT TERM USAGE.
Motion made by Dennis Mannone to approve request forms as presented.
Seconded by Pete McCauliff. Approved 3-0.
ii. Committee discussed general park use policies and created the following list:
No pets allowed.
Trash generated by event/practice/game must be bagged and taken with you when you leave.
Groups are responsible for their guests.
Unsafe conditions must be reported so they can be addressed.
No alcoholic beverages are allowed.
No vehicles allowed on the lawns.
No tobacco allowed.
No chairs or pop up tents allowed on turf or track.
No cleats allowed on track surface.
No food, seeds or beverages (other than water) allowed on Turf and Track surfaces.
Motion made by Karin Menard and seconded by Pete McCauliff to accept Park
Use policies listed above. Approved 3-0.
5. Other Business
1. Unanticipated items - none
2. Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment - none
6. Upcoming meeting schedule and agenda - Next meeting March 16, 2017.
7. Motion to adjourn by Karin Menard, seconded by Pete McCauliff- 3-0 to adjourn at 8:43pm.
