===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
-
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
Dennis Mannone, Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pete McCauliff
MASS *
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
INCORPORA
MINUTES
July 13, 2017
7:00 pm
DPW
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
1) Call to Order by Dennis Mannone at 7:02pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone,
Pete McCaulitt
2) Review Minutes from May 10, 2017 - Dennis Mannone motioned to approve the minutes of
May 10, 2017. Karin Menard seconded. Approved 3-0.
June 10, 2017 - no minutes present
4) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - not present
5) Ongoing Business
a) Turf Complex Update and Discussion - Pete said the track was complete. The only
thing left that is an issue are the bleachers and the retaining wall behind that is tilting. He
is looking into the possibility of using the remaining money from the bond and has Karen
Brochu looking into it.
b) Town Beach - Summer Hiring and Policies and Procedures discussion - Karin told the
commission that the received one response to the Lifeguard posting that was posted for a
second time.
Karin Menard motioned to recommend appointment of Ethan Gentler to the Town
Manager and Board of Selectman. Dennis Mannone seconded. Approved 3-0.
c) General Field Updates and Discussion - Karin expressed her frustration over field
usage that isn't approved before using (ie French River, Lunenburg Little League etc.).
Pete said he would do a better job at communicating that a Col is required in order to use
the field (as was the case with French River). Karin will speak with Jack on how to
handle the other organizations.
===PAGE 2===
d) Wallis Park Update and Discussion - none
e) Continuation of policy / procedure discussions, fees and scheduling of fields, courts
and beaches under the Parks Commission umbrella - none.
6) New Business
a) Phillies Update - Karin updated the commission that the Phillies have agreed to a flat
rate fee of $1300 which includes their preseason practices and all home games.
b) Memorandum of Agreement with Lunenburg Public Schools - Commission briefly re
viewed the document provided by Lunenburg Public Schools. This discussion is going to
take a considerable amount of time and would be better to have on a limited agenda.
Karin will add it as the main agenda item on the August meeting.
7) Other Business
a) Unanticipated items - none
b) Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment - none
8) Upcoming meeting schedule and agenda August 17, 2017 at 7pm.
9) Karin Menard motioned to adjourn at 9pm and Pete McCauliff seconded. Approved 3-0.
