===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MEETING MINUTES
December 4, 2017
7pm
DPW
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
ALLIED & FILED
FEB 13 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Attendance: Jack, Pete, Dennis, Mark Ericson, Karin, Dave Passios, Letarte's
1) Dennis Mannone called the meeting to order at 7:01pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Pete McCauliff,
Dennis Mannone and Jack Rodriquenz.
2) Memorandum of Agreement of Turf/Track Complex with Lunenburg Public Schools
Commissioners reviewed the document presented. Dennis felt strongly that non school related
groups needed to have an avenue for resolution if the weren't given fair and equitable usage of
the field. The commission was unsure of how to word this or how it would be executed so
decided that we would have a discussion with the School Committee at our joint meeting to
determine this.
Dennis Mannone motioned and Pete McCauliff seconded to send the draft Memorandum of
Agreement to the School Committee for review. Approved 3-0.
Dave Passios was present and asked why we don't give up total control to the School Committee
now as it appears that makes the most sense. Karin Menard said that is an option that can still be
considered and that we weren't taking that off the table even with this MoA. Karin would like to
see how to do that and if its an option and will research with Town Council and Town Manager.
3) Wallis Park Playground
At the Special Town Meeting, Article V was approved in the amount of $25k for additional play
ground equipment at Wallis Park. Dave Rogers, representing the Lunenburg Lions Club, was
present to discuss their involvement and promise of funds to the project. He explained that they
matched in kind donations and have $10k to bring to the project. They have no restrictions on
how it is to be spent as long as it is spent on the Wallis Park Playground facility. Dave Passios
mentioned to the Commission that there is a very active Eagle Scout Program and they will be
===PAGE 2===
three other playgrounds in town and they were a state approved company. Jack said that will be
of great benefit.
4) Public Comment - Mark Erickson was present representing the Charter Review Committee - He pro-
vided the commission with a copy of their section of the Charter:
"SECTION 3-9 BOARD OF PARK COMMISSIONERS
(a) Composition, Term of Office - There shall be a board of park com-
missioners consisting of 3 members who shall be elected for terms of
3 years each, so arranged that the term of 1 member shall expire each
year.
(b) Powers and Duties - The board of park commissioners may lay out
and improve public parks, make rules for their use and government,
appoint all necessary engineers, surveyors, clerks and other offi-
cers, including a police force to act in such parks. The board of
park commissioners may define the powers and duties of that police
force, fix the compensation of its members and do all acts necessary
for the proper execution of its powers and duties. Subject to appro-
priation, the park commissioners may conduct park programs and recre-
ation activities at locations other than the public parks. The day-
ears me dare
to-day care and maintenance of the public parks shall be under the
supervision of the town manager."
He said if Parks wants anything changed, it needs to go back to him asap. - They are hoping to have
everything needs to finalized and reviewed by beginning of April and that they are working on a very
tight time table.
5) Karin Menard motioned and Pete McCauliff seconded to adjourn at 8:39pm- passed 3-0
