===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MEETING MINUTES
November 20, 2017
7pm
Lunenburg Middle High School
Conference Room B1ll
7:30pm
Lunenburg Middle High School
Middle School Collaborative Room D132
1025 Mass Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 13 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1) Dennis Mannone called the meeting to order at 7pm in the LMHS Conference Room B111. Attendance: Karin
Menard, Dennis Mannone, Pete McCauliff, Jack Rodriquenz.
2) Minutes
a. Karin Menard motioned and Dennis Mannone seconded to approve the minutes of
November 16, 2017 - Approved 3-0
b. Karin Menard motioned and Dennis Mannone seconded to approve the minutes of
December 4, 2017 - Approved 3-0
3) Turf and Track Discussion and Vote
Karin informed the commission that after forwarding the Draft Memorandum of Agreement to Superintendent
Calmes, she met with both the School Committee Chair Heather Sroka and Superintendent Calmes at their re-
quest. At that meeting a second option of the Park Commission handing the complex over to the Public School
was suggested. Karin noted that the complex is located on the school campus and the school has policy in place as
well as the means to take over the complex. She also informed the commission that earlier in the week she also
met with Town Counsel and Town Manager to get an understanding of whether this could be executed by a vote
of the Park Commission if they chose that option. At that meeting Karin pointed out to Town Counsel that School
Committee Minutes from October 21, 2009 mention an Easement that was filed with the Registry. Per Town
Counsel, that is an issue that he would need to research as preliminary searches by both him and Karin produced
nothing on the Registry website. She noted however that we could still move forward with handing over the com-
plex to the School Department if the commission desires.
===PAGE 2===
from the school fields so he would expect public access to continue. He also said that as the school athletic pro-
grams grow, their field needs also continue to grow. Youth groups with current agreements would continue to have
access and any new requests would be approved based on availability and mentioned that the School Committee
has a strong use and procedure policy of their current fields and this would be included.
Karin Menard moved that the Parks Commission proceed with transferring the care, maintenance, and manage-
ment of the Lunenburg Track and Field to the School Committee and to take any and all necessary legal measures
to carry this out. Pete McCauliff seconded.
Prior to the vote, Pete McCaulliff wanted to make sure it was noted that the has spoken with the Massachusetts
State Ethics Commission and spoke with the lawyer of the day 3 separate times and each time they have said there
was no Conflict of Interest. He has requested a written opinion that can be filed with the town. That written opin-
ion could take up to 45 days but based on their verbal opinion of no conflict, is comfortable casting his vote.
Motion passed 2-1 with Karin Menard and Pete McCauliff voting in support and
Dennis Mannone voting against.
4) Next Meeting Date and Future Items - not discussed at this time due to time restraints.
5) Recessed at 7:32pm and moved to the Middle School Collaborative Room D132 to join the School Committee
meeting.
6) Reconvened as a Commission at 7:35 for Turf and Track Discussion with Lunenburg School Committee in
room D132.
Karin updated the School Committee on the vote that was taken before the recess. Dennis voiced his concern
about the residents of town still having fair access since a lot of their time, money and fundraising went into the
creation of the facility. Wendy Bertrand noted that the District has a usage policy and a lot of thought was put into
the creation of that policy. Lexi said the district has made a great amount of progress with communication and
making things stronger. They are willing to sit down with the Youth Groups and work out usage as needed and
that there is evidence to support the fact that they are committed to the community having access to the fields.
Dawn Marie Ayles motioned Meredith Weiss seconded to accept the accept the Park Commission proposal with a
similar worded motion. Passed 5-0.
Karin said she would forward the information on votes taken to Town Manager and Town Counsel.
6) Motion to adjourn by Karin Menard, seconded by Pete McCauliff- 3-0 to adjourn at 7:55pm.
