===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
196
approved
Dennis Mannone, Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pete McCauliff
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
MEETING MINUTES
April 12, 2017
7:30 pm
DPW
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
MAY 10 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1) Dennis Mannone called the meeting to order at 7:30pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Pete McCauliff, Dennis
Mannone, Jack Rodriquenz
2) Review Minutes
a. Dennis Mannone motioned and Pete McCauliff seconded to accept minutes of March 16, 3017. Ap-
proved 3-0.
b. Dennis Mannone motioned and Karin Menard seconded to accept minutes of March 24, 2017. Ap-
proved 3-0.
3) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates
a. Jack gave update on the Marshall Park 90' Diamond backstop netting. The contractor, Surfside, has
been contacted repeatedly about the delay in installation. He will continue to follow up and in the
mean time, play will continue to be limited and batting will require use of the cage.
4) Ongoing Business
a. Leominster Lacrosse Turf Usage - Pete advised that everything went well with their first usage on
Sunday. Minor issues around parking on the access road that Leominster Lacrosse is aware of and they
will work to fix.
b. Turf Complex Update and Discussion - no update
c. Town Beach - Summer Staff Hiring - job descriptions - Karin presented a Beach Coordinator
description and advised the committee that the next step is to bring that description to the Personnel
Committee. She will also begin creating a job description for the lifeguard position.
===PAGE 2===
Motion made by Karin Menard to approve the job description and to forward to Personnel
Committee. Dennis Mannone seconded. Approved 3-0.
e. Continuation of policy / procedure discussions, fees, schedules and use forms for fields, courts and
beaches under the Parks Commission umbrella including updates of tasks completed by commissioners
Karin mentioned that it would be a good idea to allow the DPW Director or his administrative assistant
to be able to approve field use requests as they can be time sensitive. All committee members were in
favor.
Motion made by Karin Menard to allow DPW to approve usage applications for grass fields if
available for time requested. Seconded by Dennis Mannone. Approved 3-0.
5) New Business
a. Lunenburg Little League - Spring usage request and fees - RJ Thibeault, Steve Chow and Mike were
present representing Lunenburg Little League. They were concerned on the effect it would have on their
budget as they said they were unaware of the per player fee that had been implemented in 2016 of $10
per player per season. Steve said they have roughly 200 players in their league spread between Tball,
Baseball and Softball in the Spring, about 40 players in the summer and 24 players in the fall. He also
said their program takes care of safety issues as well as other issues they feel needs to be addressed
(fences, dugouts, drainage, erosion). Karin pointed out that most of those issues address the needs of
their program and not the town as a whole. Steve mentioned that they recently purchased a scoreboard
and if they had been aware of the user fee they may have made a different decision. Jack pointed out
that the cost to maintain the fields still outweighs the work don't on the fields and the purchase of
equipment and although it is appreciated, we still have to deal with the expense for upkeep. Steve
pointed out that the Tball field requires little maintenance and asked the commission to wave the $10
user fee for the players in that program. Pete agreed.
Motion by Karin Menard to remove the $10 per player free for the Tball program for the Spring
2017. A $10 per player fee will remain for the rest of the divisions. Pete seconded. Approved 3-0.
6) Other Business
a. Unanticipated items - none
b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment - Joe Ruth from the Lunenburg Phillies gave
a brief narrative about his program and their usage of Marshall Park since 1984. He was unaware of the
new usage fees and was looking for more information. He said they paid $600 for the use of the field in
2015. Karin asked him where his players come from and he replied that most were in a 10-15 mile
radius of Lunenburg and that they were mainly college age young men. Dennis asked what their usage
was and Joe said they generally practice Saturday, Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday up until regular
season starts and then homes games. This year the regular season starts Memorial Day Weekend and
could last until early August if they make playoffs. Joe questioned the reasoning behind an hourly fee
because he feels that his group has made upgrades and leaves the field better than they found it. Dennis
explained that implementing usage rates is no different than what other cities and towns are doing and
===PAGE 3===
that donations of cleanup time and field maintenance, while appreciated, don't eliminate the cost of
overall maintenance of the fields. He advised Mr. Ruth to fill out the field usage request form and if we
eventually settle on a flat per season rate we will put the amount already paid for this season to that
seasonal rate.
c. Next meeting date and agenda - not decided
7) Motion to adjourn by Karin Menard, seconded by Dennis Mannone - 3-0 to adjourn at 9:53pm.
