===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MEETING MINUTES
November 16, 2017
7:30pm
DPW
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1) Dennis Mannone called the meeting to order at 7:32pm. Attendance: Dennis Mannone, Karin
Menard, Jack Rodriquenz, Pete McCauliff
2) Minutes
a. Karin Menard motioned and Dennis Mannone seconded to approve the minutes of Sep-
tember 21, 2017 - Approved 3-0
b. Karin Menard motioned and Pete McCauliff seconded to approve the minutes of August
17, 2017 - Approved 2-0 (Dennis Mannone did not vote as he was not present at meeting).
3) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates -
Jack Rodriquenz updated the commission that the Board of Selectmen would like a plan of the
long term plan is for the fields in regards to maintenance, projects, capital planning, etc.
Marshall Park - he is working on the parking issues at Marshall Park as well as working with
Chief Marino on a traffic plan. The installation of the netted backstop is almost complete. The
last phase will be the net which will be installed once the weather clears in late winter / early
spring. He will also be addressing turf maintenance. Suggests the commission work on the logis-
tics of field scheduling and updating fees as well as determining a way to police unscheduled /
unapproved usage by organizations.
Town Beach - Conservation Commission has approved placing of sand annually. Capital plan
will deal with issues of bowing front wall as well as some interior renovations. The liability of
the playground equipment will also need to be looked at.
===PAGE 2===
do with the basketball court as that will need to be resurtaced in the near future.
FED 1: 2018
4) Ongoing Business
a. Memorandum of Agreement with Lunenburg Public Schools
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Lunenburg Public Schools presented a previous Park Commission with a Memorandum
of Agreement a few years back but that had never been finalized. They asked that it be
looked at by the current commission. Karin updated the commission that she had met
with Superintendent Calmes, School Committee Chair Heather Sroka, Town Manager
Heather Lemieux, Town Accountant Karen Brochu and DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz
earlier in the month. All parties involved would like to see an MoA come to fruition
sooner rather than later. She also updated the commission that per the information
provided at that meeting, the Snack Shack is outside of the area managed by the Park
Commission. Dennis said he wants to make sure youth groups have a seat at the table so
that no group felt as though they were being pushed out. The commission discussed the
version provided by the public schools and Karin will take that information and create a
new MoA based on the feedback from the current commission.
5) New Business
a. Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles
Article V - Submitted by resident Chris Letarte - Commission felt they could not take an
official stance as the specifics had not yet been presented to them. They are behind the
premise of the article as there is a definite need in that area of town.
6) Other Business
a. Unanticipated items
Meeting with Board of Selectman - Jack will provide a brief overview and then hand it
over the commissioners. Karin will take the Town Beach, Dennis Marshall Park and
general fields and Pete McCauliff will address the turf.
b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment - none
7) Motion to adjourn by Karin Menard, seconded by Pete McCauliff- 3-0 to adjourn at 9:10pm.
