===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
Denhis Mannone, Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pete McCauliff, Member
ASS *
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA
CORPORA
Meeting Minutes
Wednesday May 10, 2017
1) Dennis Mannone called the meeting to order at 7:07pm. Attendance: Dennis Mannone, Karin
Menard, Jack Rodriquenz, Pete McCauliff (arrived at 7:30pm).
2) Public Comment - Due to the number of people in attendance, Public Comment was moved to
the top of the agenda. Steve Deschenes, parent of High School Baseball player, asked for an
update on the netted backstop at Marshall Park and inquired about the delay. Jack gave a brief
history of the field usage and the reason for the net. He went on to explain that the contractor
has proven difficult to work with and things were not done in a timely manner. Once it was
brought to Jack's attention that the High School had games scheduled that were going to need
to be moved around, he worked with Steve Powell to put up a temporary net so that games
could happen as scheduled. Karin explained that this project was unexpected and that Jack
was able to work through his budget to find the $20k to cover these costs. She also explained
that currently the schools are the only ones not paying for field usage at that field. Christa
Palma and Stephanie Knight inquired as to the lack of communication. Dennis explained that
the delay was not a secret and that Jack has been in contact on a regular basis with the con-
tractor to try and get this job completed. Karin pointed out that notification of field use needs
to come from the school and as far as she knew the start dates hadn't been given and that it is
not the responsibility of the Park Commission to track down those that may want to use the
field. Dan Proctor asked if the Phillies or Babe Ruth would be able to play there as well. Jack
said yes as long as the temporary netting is sufficient until the permanent one was installed.
Karin also made those in attendance aware that the Park Commission approved field usage
fees at the beginning of the year and that usage now requires the permit application and usage
fees.
2) Review minutes from April 12, 2017 - Karin motioned and Pete seconded to accept minutes of
April 12, 2017. Approved 3-0.
3) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - no additional updates
4) Ongoing Business
a) Turf Complex - tabled due to time constraints.
b) Leominster Lacrosse usage - tabled due to time constraints
c) Town Beach - Gen Nass was present and addressed the commission about opening
dates, passes, swim lesson and life guard training. She said that the season usually
===PAGE 2===
runs from the Saturday after school gets out until a week or so before school starts.
Karin updated the commission that she had done the paperwork required by the
state and the earliest day the beach could be opened was the 21st anyway.
Motion made by Karin Menard to open the town beach to the public on
June 24, 2017. Seconded by Dennis. Approved 3-0.
Gen advised the commission that the beach pass prices had not been updated in
many years. The park commissioners discussed what an appropriate fee would be
that wouldn't be a sudden surge in price.
Motion made by Karin Menard to implement the following beach pass
fees for the 2017 season:
850 - Resident Family
$35 - Resident Individual
$75 - Non Resident Family
$50 - Non Resident Individual
Daily Rate - $5 adult, $3 student
Dennis seconded. Approved 3-0
Gen advised the commission that swim lessons have become a popular part of the
beach. Karin didn't think the current lesson rates fully covered the cost of lessons and
asked Gen to provide more details for our next meeting. Gen said she would but also
expressed that she thought swim lesson dates could be decided before the lesson rates
as families need to know that information to plan their summers.
Motion made by Karin Menard for the following:
Lifeguard Training - June 19 - June 30
Swim Lessons Session I - July 10-21
Swim Lessons Session II - July 24 - Aug 4
Pete seconded. Approved 3-0
Gen also asked for permission to run the Great Cardboard Boat Race again this year
on August 5th.
Motion made by Karin Menard allowing the Beach Coordinator to
organize and run the 2017 Great Cardboard Boat Race.
Pete Seconded. Approved 3-0
d) Baseball and Softball Fields- no additional updates.
e) Continuation of policy / procedure discussions, fees, schedules and use forms for
fields, courts, and beaches under the Parks Commission umbrella including updates
of tasks completed by commissioners.
===PAGE 3===
5) New Business
a) Friends of Wallis Park - Chris and Melony Letarte were in attendance to discuss
some of their ideas to improve the Wallis Park Playground area. Chris explained that
there are over 180 families in the area, many with young children, and there is no
longer any playground on that side of town. He said he would like to see something that
would be interactive and educational go in its place. Since Town Meeting approved the
Capital Plan for 2018 that included a play structure for Wallis Park, Jack told Chris that
we could all work together to get this done. He told Chis to work with the folks in that
area and come up with a plan and some ideas.
6) Other Business
a) Unanticipated Items - Dale Diamontopolos had submitted a field usage application
for the grass annex next to the turf. The commission mistakenly left pricing off of that
document when it was created at the beginning of the year. Dennis suggested that since
this camp pulls a profit that we do a flat per camper fee of $10.
Motion made by Pete McCauliff to charge a per camper fee of $10 to Sports
Camp to use the grass annex. Dennis seconded. Approved 3-0
Motion made by Karin Menard to add a $25 per hour fee to the application for
use of the grass annex. Pete seconded. Approved 3-0.
b) Correspondence and Announcements - none
8) Next meeting - June 15, 2017 7pm.
9) Motion to adjourn by Karin Menard, seconded by Pete McCauliff- 3-0 to adjourn at 9:18pm.
