===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Minutes August 17, 2017 page 1 of 2
Town of Lunenburg
Park Commission
BURG
Dennis Mannone, Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Pete McCauliff
Tel: (978) 582-4160
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
MEETING MINUTES
August 17, 2017
7pm
Department of Public Works
520 Chase Rd., Lunenburg
1. Called to order by Karin Menard at 7pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Pete McCauliff Also Present: Sandy
Laserte, Sharon Albertini and Wayne Albertini on behalf of Lunenburg Track and Field Association.
2. Minutes - Karin Menard motioned and Pete McCauliff seconded to approve the minutes from April 12, 2017
and May 10, 2017 with no changes. Approved 2-0.
3. DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - none
4. Ongoing Business
a. Turf Complex Update and Discussion - Pete McCauliff updated that the fencing has been fixed and
that the lines for Field Hockey, Soccer, and Football are being done on Tuesday and Wednesday.
b. Memorandum of Agreement with Lunenburg Public Schools discussion - no discussion
c. Town Beach - no discussion
d. Continuation of policy / procedure discussions, fees, schedules and use forms for
fields, courts and beaches under the Parks Commission umbrella - no discussion
5) New Business
a. Request to name turf complex - Sandy Laserte, Sharon Albertini and Wayne Albertini gave a brief
presentation requesting that the Turf be dedicated and renamed Myles J. McCarron Field and Richard M.
Mulligan track. Karin mentioned that she was not sure what the procedure was for doing this sort of
dedication and wanted to research for the next meeting. Pete agreed and this will be added to the agenda
for the next meeting.
===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Minutes August 17, 2017 page 2 of 2
b. Unapproved usage of ball fields - Karin advised that the Lunenburg Senior Babe Ruth summer
baseball team had been using Marshall Park with no approval or Certificate of Insurance on file. She
will send the coach listed on the Babe Ruth site as well as the listed coordinator for the organization a
bill for the 3 games showing as being played at Marshall Park in June and July.
3. Motion to adjourn by Karin Menard, seconded by Pete McCauliff - 2-0 to adjourn at 8pm.
