===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MEETING MINUTES
November 1, 2018
DPW
520 Chase Rd.
Lunenburg, MA
1) Dennis called the meeting to order at 7:02pm. Present: Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone, Susanna Jewell
2) Dennis motioned and Susanna seconded to approve the minutes of October 3, 2018 - approved 3-0
3) DPW Director / Town Manager updates - Karin reported that the DPW Administrative Assistant emailed earlier in the
day that fees owed by the Life Long Learners Softball program still had not been paid. Karin also pointed out that the
Spring 2018 $10 per player user fee we were charging the School Department to use Marshall Park for their spring
seasons also was not paid. Susanna though we should at least acknowledge to them that it wasn't paid even if we don't
collect on it. Dennis would like to participate in discussion with the school around fees. Karin said she would arrange
a meeting.
4) 2019 Spring Usage Fees - Dennis thought the user fees should be kept at $10 per player for youth groups with a
seasonal agreement and that includes Tball. The group agreed. Karin will notify Lunenburg Little League that they are
not waiving the Tball fee. Dennis also thought we should start having discussions with all the groups that use the fields
as we may need to consider raising the user fees.
5) Beach Financials - none at this time.
6) Charter Review - Bob Ebersole had notified Karin via email that they had gone back to the original wording of the
Parks section and that he didn't anticipate any changes. Karin asked the board if we should consider asking them to
increase the board size from three to five. Susanna thought that 3 seems scant and 5 seems better. Karin asked the
others to give it some thought and we could discuss at a future meeting.
7) Capital Plan discussion/decision - Jack had asked the group to continue working on a Capital Plan. Wallis Basketball
Court was an item all commissioners thought should be a request - replace all 4 sides of fencing and resurface court.
All agreed that the Town Beach rehab and the side potential pocket park be submitted as one item. The last item the
commission would like to see is a Feasibility Study for new recreational space which would also include locating the
best piece of property.
8) Long term planning discussion - Commission felt they had a good handle on many of the small ideas and that a
feasibility study. Susanna volunteered to figure out what the process for the beach. Karin mentioned that a feasibility
study would be helpful in determining a long term plan.
9) Open Space Update/Discussion - Karin updated the group that the finishing touches were being put on the draft and a
copy of the draft should be sent out at the end of the month for review.
10) Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting - none
===PAGE 2===
13) Adjourn Karin motioned and Susanna seconded to adjourn at 8:24.
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 09 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
