===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission  
                                                Tel: (978) 582-4160 
Dennis Mannone, Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                                Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Pete McCauliff 
  
Meeting Minutes
June 27, 2018
6:00pm
DPW
520 Chase Rd.
Lunenburg, MA
1) Dennis Mannone called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone and Jack 
Rodriquenz. Absent: Pete McCauliff
2) Dennis Mannone motioned to approve minute from May 16, 2018. Karin Menard seconded. Approved 2-0. Minutes 
from June 19th, 2018 were not ready.
3) Reorganization of Committee - Dennis Mannone will remain as Chair, Karin Menard will remain as clerk.
4) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates 
1) Adult Fitness - Karin provided information from Heather Lemieux about an adult ﬁtness facility. Karin was 
concerned about the fundraising that would need to be done above and beyond what would need to be 
contributed by the town. Dennis felt as though there were currently more pressing things. Karin agreed. 
Will add to the list of ideas for future discussion.
5) Request from Pastor Rodriguez of the Seventh Day Adventist Church to perform a baptism at the Town Beach - Karin 
advised the commission that Town Manager had received a request from the Seventh Day Advent Church to use the 
town beach for a baptism. They are requesting access for a 1 hour block of time when the beach is not opened and  
they have signed the needed release of liability form with the town.
Karin Motioned to notify BOS that there are no conﬂicts that we are aware of and ok the use of the beach 
for this purpose. Dennis Mannone seconded. Approved 2-0.
6) Spring / Summer 2018
1) Central Mass Youth Basketball has 2 teams (5th and 6th grade boys) playing this year. Karin recommended 
charging the same $10 fee per player that is currently being charged to other youth groups using Park 
facilities. 
Karin motioned and Dennis seconded to charge Central Mass Youth Basketball teams $10 per player for 
use of Wallis Park. Approved 2-0.
2) Karin updated the commission that the Phillies and Little League have paid their Summer 2018 user fees. 
Outstanding is payment from Life Long Learners, Central Mass Youth Baseball, and Central Mass Youth 
Basketball. Karin will ask Samantha Tucker, Admin for DPW, to send out bills.

===PAGE 2===
7)Town Beach - General policy, procedure and summer 2018 discussion and votes.
1)Jack concerned with the beach being open during inclement weather with few, if any, pass holders using it. 
Karin expressed concern about the budget and didn’t think it made sense to keep the beach open when the 
weather questionable if the beach and that closing when it was raining and there were no patrons would 
help to close the budget gap. Karin and Dennis both agreed that the beach should be closed during 
inclement weather. Jack will send an email to the beach coordinator.
8)Request from Main Street Bank for “We Love Lunenburg” event at Town Beach - Karin received an email from Main 
Street Bank looking to do some sort of shaved ice or ice cream truck event at the Town Beach on one of the swim   
lesson days as a way to give back to Lunenburg. Dennis had no concern. Karin will let her contact with Main Street 
Bank know we thought it was a great plan.
9)Wallis Park - Karin advised the commission that she had received a call from Think Tank, a company on the 
Lunenburg / Fitchburg line, inquiring about the condition of the hoops at Wallis. They felt that the court was an 
important community facility and gets a lot of use. Think Tank asked about whether a sponsorship program was in 
place and Karin had told him there wasn’t but would talk to the commission. Karin had reached out to the Town 
Manager to see if the town had a sponsorship policy before tonights meeting and Heather had replied via email that 
there was not one. Jack recommended we ask Think Tank to give him a call or to come in and discuss their thoughts 
and give more information on what they would like to see done. Both Dennis and Karin agreed that would be a good 
idea. Karin will email Think Tank and ask them to contact Jack.
10) 250 Whalom Rd. - Benjamin Builders - Z.B.A. agreement update. - Karin updated the commission that she attended a 
Z.B.A. meeting at their request. Benjamin Builders had a plan in hand but the Z.B.A. felt that things were being rushed 
and they weren’t ready to commit to that plan. In order to not hold up the occupancy permit, they decided to have 
Benjamin Builders put the funds into an escrow account with the town. Jack will reach out and get more information.
11) Open Space Ad Hoc Committee - Open Space requested Parks delegate a representative.
 Karin motioned to designate Dennis with Karin as the alternate. Dennis seconded. Approved 2-0.
12) Long Term Vision - Jack suggested either together or separately. Dennis to send over dates that work for him for a 
walking tour. Karin will post if a majority of commissioners will be present.
13) Capital Plan - Commission decided they will discuss after a walking tour.
14) Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting - none
15) Correspondence, Announcement and Public and Board Comment - no public comment
16) Next meeting: July 26, 2018 6pm @ DPW
17) Karin motioned to adjourn and Dennis seconded to adjourn at 7:10 pm. Approved 2-0.