===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MEETING MINUTES
JOINT MEETING WITH BOARD OF SELECTMAN
August 7, 2018
7:25pm
Town Hall
Bilotta Meeting Room - Second Floor
17 Main Street
Lunenburg, MA
1) Dennis called the meeting to order at 7:25pm.
Park Commissioners present: Karin Menard and Dennis Mannone.
Board of Selectman Members present: Jamie Toale, Bob Ebersole, Phyllis Luck, Damien
McQuaid, Katey Adams
2) Interview of Candidates:
Susanna Jewell, 985 Massachusetts Avenue, stated she moved here in 2012 and stated she
wanted to get involved in some way and Parks would be a good fit for her. She holds a landscape/architecture
degree and owns a landscaping company. She understands the importance of open space and recreational land;
they are just as important as our public buildings. Mr. Ebersole asked if she saw any challenges or opportunities
for the parks in town. She replied just going to Lake Whalom this week, parking could be addressed over there.
Mr. Toale asked her if she intended to run for election next year. She stated yes.
Dave Passios, 56 Whiting Street, stated he has been an elected official going on eight years (Board of
Health). He has been very involved in other committees as well as the one he is on at the moment. He spent the
last two years attending Parks Commission meetings getting to know how the Commissioners felt about the
needs of the town. He has found there has been a shift in interest in other types of sports other than baseball and
they are starting to address those needs. He has some ideas as well as he knows all the areas of town and what
has potential for expansion or transition. In his professional life he has been in the manufacturing field in either
middle management or management; working with developing budgets, taking care of structures and the
physical plants, tracking maintenance needs and soliciting quotes for work. He is comfortable working on
projects. He sees the need in town for municipal space for the residents. We have transformed almost all of our
open parks into sports venues and there is a need for open space for just park area to recreate in.
Mr. Ebersole asked other than the two areas you have talked about already do you see any challenges or
opportunities that you see for the parks in town? Mir. Passios replied keeping a closer eye on the money
budgeted for Parks and making sure the commission comes up with appropriate and affordable projects that
- improve our parks and continuing to work on their policies and procedures. Mr. Ebersole asked since he was
lected would he be resigning from the Board of Health (BOH) if elected next year. Mr. Passios stated Town
counsel informed him because this is an appointed, until elected position, he could remain on the BOH until the
next election. If someone wants to come forward and serve on the BOH, he would resign. If necessary, he
would resign tonight and definitely run in May.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Mannone-aye
Ms. Adams- aye
Ms. Luck- aye
Mr. McQuaid- nay
Mr. Ebersole-aye
Mr. Toale- aye.
Total in favor- 5, 2 - against.
Mr. Toale announced Ms. Jewell was appointed to Parks Commission.
3) Park Commission adjourned at 7:35pm.
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 09 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
