===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MEETING MINUTES
January 25, 2018
(1) Dennis called the meeting to order at 7:01 pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone, Pete McCauliff.
2) Dennis motioned and Karin seconded to approve the minutes from December 20, 2017. Approved 3-0
RECEIVED & FILED
3) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - none
4) Ongoing Business
a) Turf Complex - turn over updates / discussion - none
APR 1 # 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
b) Town Beach - Summer 2017 overview, 2018 Staff Hiring, Rate Review for passes and lessons
Karin gave an update on swim lessons that was provided by Gen Nass.
Session I: 59 attended
Session II: 48 attended
Total taken in $2080
(2 families qualified for family discount)
2 hours of instruction, 5 days a week (rain or shine), 2 weeks, 2 classes at a time
3 lifeguards/swim instructors rotating between instruction and guarding a small free swim near the beach house
Cost to Red Cross: $300.00
Without an exact break out of who taught, Karin pointed out that it would be difficult to determine right the exact salary
cost since it wasn't broken down to know if it was life guards or the beach coordinator teaching the lessons. Using the
lifeguard salary, the 2 sessions of swim lessons had $820 in salary costs.
Gen had told Karin that due to weeds, there was only enough usable water space to conduct 2 swim lesson classes at a
time vs. the 3 that had been done in previous years. Karin had spoken with Jack about this and he is looking into a blanket
weed control system for the 2018 season. Dennis asked if there had been a wait list for lessons. Karin did not know the
answer but she would ask Gen. Karin also said that she has been in contact with Adam Burney about automating beach
registrations and possibly swim lessons and we will be in the next phase to be added. Dennis also asked that we double
check the condition of the First Aid equipment as well as any other equipment to ensure nothing needs replacement. Karin
will add that to the list to talk to Gen Nass about.
c) Continuation of policy / procedure discussions, fees and scheduling of fields, courts and beaches
under the Parks Commission umbrella
Karin pointed out that we currently do not have any policy around usage or fees for the snack shacks lo-
cated at Marshall and McNally fields. Although the expenses aren't significant, we are paying electricity on these build-
ings and the DPW has no or limited access. There is also a storage box located at Fitzgerald field that we are unsure of the
===PAGE 2===
5) New Business
a) Baseball Field and Snack Shack Usage for 2018
Karin would like the 2018 Spring Season to be more organized in terms of getting information from user
organizations for schedules as well as user payments and asked the commission for suggestions. Dennis suggested that we
invite Lunenburg Little League to our March meeting and sort through the details of what we need from them. High
School baseball and softball, per Pete, would be starting March 19, 2018 and run through about Memorial Day weekend.
Karin told Pete he needed to get that information over to the DPW director so we would avoid the miscommunications of
last season. Pete asked the commission to work to determine a fee structure for the usage of Marshall Park by the High
School Softball and Baseball programs.
6) Other Business
a) Unanticipated items - none
b) Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment
Sandy Laserte was present to ask questions about the decision to transfer the turf complex to the Lunen-
burg Public Schools and gave a brief history of the reasons the turf complex was built and that it was a complex for all
residents to have access too. Karin explained that after doing considerable research and realizing that the School District
had covered most of the maintenance and repair cost and that the Park Commission had limited resources and man power
that she had come to the conclusion that it would be best, in her opinion, if the school had full control of the facility. Pete
added that a number of years ago LYSA was blocked from field usage even though they were paying and the school was
able to help them out. Sandy voiced her concern over usage and what would happen if a new Athletic Director or School
Committee decided the facility was for school use only. Karin explained that the Park Commission will eventually consist
of new members and they could decide the same. Recommendation by her was to keep dialogue open between the public
and the school. Pete also added that the school programs are getting close to 100% usage of the turf and that they have no
plans on blocking any of the groups currently paying into the bond. He also suggested that the Park Commission may
need to consider additional field space to fill the needs of the community. Dennis said that his vote against the motion was
because he was looking for checks and balances.
7) Upcoming meeting schedule and agenda
February 15, 2018
March 15, 2018
Agenda items: TBD
8) Karin motioned and Pete seconded to adjourn at 9:14pm. Approved 3-0.
