===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MEETING MINUTES
February 15, 2018
7pm
DPW
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 1 1 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1) Call to Order by Dennis Mannone at 7pm. Attendance: Dennis Mannone and Karin Menard
2) Dennis Mannone motioned and Karin Menard seconded to accept the minutes from January 25, 2018 - ap-
proved 2-0
3) New Business
a) 01462 Skate Park Presentation / Discussion (presented by Lunenburg Middle School Students) - Grif-
fin Caiozzo, Jonah Salvatore, Mason Whitcomb, Aidan Moore and Chris Roy, 7th graders at Lunenburg Middle
School, gave a power point presentation on their idea to create a skate park in Lunenburg. With no safe place for
them to skate, they decided to do their Genius Hour project on creating a safe and dedicated place for those of
any age to skate. They are looking at a few locations including an area at Marshall Park that used to be Skate
Park but was abandoned years ago. They asked about insurance and Dennis told them we would have to check
with Town Manager. They had many ideas on fundraising and also asked if their time line of 2019 was doable.
Karin said that fundraising would take a considerable amount of time and that even though she thought the time
line was aggressive, it could be done in that time frame if they put the work in. Dennis told them if Marshall
Park emerges as their number 1 choice, we would have them back and include the Town Manager, DPW Direc-
tor and Police Chief in the discussion. Both Karin and Dennis thanked the group for their presentation and
praised their efforts to create something they think would benefit residents of town.
4) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - Karin provided an update from DPW director that the driver who
drove through the fence at town beach over Christmas break was uninsured. He explained to Karin that it need-
ed to be repaired and the town will most likely be on the hook for it. Dennis asked if the town insurance would
cover it and Karin replied that she didn't think so as the DPW would have mentioned that if it was. Karin sug-
gested that the Park Commission give the DPW director the go ahead to repair and attempt to bill the driver for
the cost of the damages.
Motion: Karin motioned and Dennis seconded for the DPW Director to move forward with repairs and
attempt to bill the driver for cost of damages and take any other means to recoup the cost of repairs.
Passed 2-0.
===PAGE 2===
High School Program.
Motion: Karin motioned and Dennis seconded to charge Lunenburg Schools $10 per baseball and softball
player for the Spring 2018 season. Passed 2-0.
b) Turf Complex - turn over updates / discussion - Karin said she met with Heather Sroka and Town
Counsel Adam Costa earlier in the week. Adam had said that he had a few more things to complete on his end
for this to be considered complete and recommend that we continue with the status quo of how things had been
done last season. Karin said that would mean that any request for use would need to come through Parks.
c) Town Beach - Summer 2017 overview, 2018 Staff Hiring, Rate Review for passes and lessons - Nan-
cy Forest had forwarded the Seasonal Certification form to Karin that needed to be sent to the state a minimum
of 60 days before the opening of the season. Dennis thought we should use Memorial Day through mid Sep-
tember. Karin said she would submit the form to Nancy using the Friday before Memorial Day through the third
Thursday of September which would allow the Beach Coordinator to come to a meeting to give a wrap up of the
2018 beach season. Karin mentioned that the commission needed to look at the 2018 season fees for beach
passes and would like that added to the April agenda. Dennis agreed and also mentioned that residents want ser-
vices for park and recreation and we should eventually look into adding additional programing.
d) Continuation of policy / procedure discussions, fees and scheduling of fields, courts and beaches
under the Parks Commission umbrella. - No updates.
e) Playground Updates and Discussion - The Friends of Wallis Park and the Lions Club are ready to
move forward with ordering the playground equipment. Dennis said he would like to see a plan and for Jack tor
view as well and give a final OK. Karin will go back to Chris Letarte and request he get a final design plan and
then set up a commission meeting.
5) Other Business
a) Unanticipated items - none
b) Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment - none
6) Upcoming meeting - March 15, 2018 and a second March meeting to finalize playground design if needed.
7) Adjournment - Karin motioned and Dennis seconded to adjourn at 8:18.
