===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
FED 14 2019
Meeting Minutes
July 26, 2018
6:00pm
DPW
520 Chase Rd.
Lunenburg, MA
1) Dennis Mannone called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone and Jack
Rodriquenz. Absent: Pete McCauliff
2) Dennis Mannone motioned to approve minute from May 16, 2018. Karin Menard seconded. Approved 2-0. Minutes
from June 19th, 2018 were not ready.
3) Reorganization of Committee - Dennis Mannone will remain as Chair, Karin Menard will remain as clerk.
4) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates
1) Adult Fitness - Karin provided information from Heather Lemieux about an adult fitness facility. Karin was
concerned about the fundraising that would need to be done above and beyond what would need to be
contributed by the town. Dennis felt as though there were currently more pressing things. Karin agreed.
Will add to the list of ideas for future discussion.
5) Request from Pastor Rodriguez of the Seventh Day Adventist Church to perform a baptism at the Town Beach - Karin
advised the commission that Town Manager had received a request from the Seventh Day Advent Church to use the
town beach for a baptism. They are requesting access for a l hour block of time when the beach is not opened and
they have signed the needed release of liability form with the town.
Karin Motioned to notify BOS that there are no conflicts that we are aware of and ok the use of the beach
for this purpose. Dennis Mannone seconded. Approved 2-0.
6) Spring / Summer 2018
1) Central Mass Youth Basketball has 2 teams (5th and 6th grade boys) playing this year. Karin recommended
charging the same $10 fee per player that is currently being charged to other youth groups using Park
facilities.
Karin motioned and Dennis seconded to charge Central Mass Youth Basketball teams $10 per player for
use of Wallis Park. Approved 2-0.
2) Karin updated the commission that the Phillies and Little League have paid their Summer 2018 user fees.
Outstanding is payment from Life Long Learners, Central Mass Youth Baseball, and Central Mass Youth
Basketball. Karin will ask Samantha Tucker, Admin for DPW, to send out bills.
===PAGE 2===
Bank know we thought it was a great plan.
9) Wallis Park - Karin advised the commission that she had received a call from Think Tank, a company on the
Lunenburg / Fitchburg line, inquiring about the condition of the hoops at Wallis. They felt that the court was an
important community facility and gets a lot of use. Think Tank asked about whether a sponsorship program was in
place and Karin had told him there wasn't but would talk to the commission. Karin had reached out to the Town
Manager to see if the town had a sponsorship policy before tonights meeting and Heather had replied via email that
there was not one. Jack recommended we ask Think Tank to give him a call or to come in and discuss their thoughts
and give more information on what they would like to see done. Both Dennis and Karin agreed that would be a good
idea. Karin will email Think Tank and ask them to contact Jack.
10) 250 Whalom Rd. - Benjamin Builders - Z.B.A. agreement update. - Karin updated the commission that she attended a
Z.B.A. meeting at their request. Benjamin Builders had a plan in hand but the Z.B.A. felt that things were being rushed
and they weren't ready to commit to that plan. In order to not hold up the occupancy permit, they decided to have
Benjamin Builders put the funds into an escrow account with the town. Jack will reach out and get more information.
11) Open Space Ad Hoc Committee - Open Space requested Parks delegate a representative.
Karin motioned to designate Dennis with Karin as the alternate. Dennis seconded. Approved 2-0.
12) Long Term Vision - Jack suggested either together or separately. Dennis to send over dates that work for him for a
walking tour. Karin will post if a majority of commissioners will be present.
13) Capital Plan - Commission decided they will discuss after a walking tour.
14) Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting - none
15) Correspondence, Announcement and Public and Board Comment - no public comment
16) Next meeting: July 26, 2018 6pm @ DPW
17) Karin motioned to adjourn and Dennis seconded to adjourn at 7:10 pm. Approved 2-0.
===PAGE 3===
MEETING MINUTES
June 19, 2018
7:30pm
Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Avenue
Lunenburg, MA
Joint Meeting with Conservation Committee and Open Space Ad Hoc Committee
1) Dennis Mannone opened the meeting at 7:45pm. Park Commissioners present: Karin
Menard and Dennis Mannone.
2) Karin and Dennis provided information on the spaces that fall under the Park Umbrella.
Both agreed with the Open Space Committee that a representative from the Park
Commission would be valuable as we look towards the future. Dennis told the chair Parks
would decide on a rep at the next Park Commission meeting.
3) Public Comment - none
4) Karin motioned and Dennis seconded to adjourn at 9:15pm. Approved 2-0.
