===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MEETING MINUTES
October 3 2018
DPW
520 Chase Rd.
Lunenburg, MA
FEB 1 4 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1) Dennis called the meeting to order at 7pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone, Susanna Jewell and DPW
Director Jack Rodriquenz.
2) Karin motioned and Dennis seconded to approve minutes of September 12, 2018. Approved 3-0.
3) DPW Director / Town Manager updates - Jack asked the commission if anyone had been in touch with the ZBA
regarding the piece of land/funds that they are requiring to be turned over at Whalom Luxury Apartments. Karin said
the last she knew was that the funds for the playground were being put into escrow. He said he thought we should
investigate whether or not the funds could be used for something else in the Whalom area and that it may be a good
question for town council. Steve Malandrinos was present to talk about Parks Technology needs. He had spoken to
Jack as well as Karin last month. The commission said that the short term need would be wifi and technology at the
Town Beach for personnel use. Steve said that is doable and would work to come up with pricing. Jack said once he
did that he would make sure that information is disseminated.
4) Summer 2018 Beach Recap - Gen Nass was present to give an update on the 2018 Season.
• Great attendance this year and only 14 days had under 50 visitors.
• Beach Closed on August 26th.
• Lesson registrations were at 53 for session 1 and 84 for session 2.
• All 50 non resident tags were sold.
Dennis thought that we should revisit pricing for next year. Gen thought we could entertain raising out of town prices.
Karin mentioned that last year we broke even on swim lessons and that she was expecting the same this year but that
Susanna wasn't done going through those numbers. Jack asked how many days were closed this season and Gen replied
1.5 days. Jack replied that a keener eye needs to be kept on the weather because the beach should not be open during
weather that keeps people from going. Gen was concerned that if the beach closes for a week of rain that the employees
won't get a paycheck. Jack explained that is unfortunately part of business and that we can't pay people to just sit around
either. Dennis said we would work together to come up with a policy to see what would work. Karin agreed saying that if
we work together we can find some middle ground that makes sense for all.
===PAGE 2===
1) clean up basketball area at Wallis - fencing and surfacing. This could go in as one large capital item or two
smaller ones.
2) Town Beach - potential Pocket Park in space to the left of the building. Additional of door into that area.
Update of building. Better ADA compliance.
3) Parking at Marshall
Commission agreed that these were their top targets at this time.
6) General discussion around future ideas:
1) Marshall Park- Karin and Susanna thought walking trail and picnic areas would be a great addition. Karin
mentioned that one of the results from the Open Space Survey was that a large number of people wanted to
add Ice Skating to the town offerings. Karin asked if that was possible at Marshall Pond and Jack said it
was. Additional field space and open green space would be beneficial as the commission felt that what we
have now is limited. Dennis would like to explore a feasibility or need study to determine what the needs
are, the locations that would address these needs and the cost to do so. Dave Passios added that people are
starting to talk about Marshall and he has suggested to them was that they start coming up with some ideas
and bring them to the commission.
7) Karin updated the commission on the Open Space survey results and said that she was updating the Park Sections to
better reflect what we currently manage and the use of those spaces.
7) Set next meeting date and agenda - November 1 - time TBD
9) Susanna motioned and Karin seconded to adjourn at 8:45pm. Approved 3-0.
