===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
approved 5/16/18
Karin Menard
PARK COMMISSION MINUTES
April 11, 2018
7pm
520 Chase Road
Lunenburg, MA
1) Dennis called to order at 7pm. Attendance - Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone, Pete
McCauliff (arrived at 7:05)
2) Minutes
- Dennis motioned and Karin seconded to approve minutes from March 5, 2018 -
Approved 2-0 (Pete not present)
- Dennis motioned and Karin seconded to approve minutes from March 15, 2018 -
Approved 3-0
3) DPW Director / Town Manager Updates - none
4) Dog/Pet policy at Baseball Fields including signage discussion/vote - Karin informed
the commission that she misunderstood and the DPW Director has ordered signage. Jean
Proctor reported that there is a lot of animal waste on the outfield of the softball field.
Pete added that the situation is growing worse each year and that fields are getting beat
up. Karin said she wasn't sure what we can do to enforce it but she would follow up with
DPW Director and Town Manager to see what could be done.
5) Town Beach -Beach Fees and general 2018 Season
Employee Applications and Recommendations - Karin updated the commission that there
were no additional applicants other than the ones received from Nancy Forrest a couple
of weeks ago. The applicants were the folks that worked at the Town Beach last season.
Karin motioned to recommend appointment of Genevier Nass as Beach Coordinator
and Cheryl Shaw, Catherine Keefer, Elizabeth Simeone, Lynn Major and Ethan
Gengler as Lifeguards. Pete seconded. Passed 3-0
===PAGE 2===
Karin motioned for swim lesson fees to remain at $20 per child / $60 max per family
per session for the 2018 season. Dennis seconded. Approved 3-0.
Dennis asked if we needed to consider changing the seasonal pass rate for this season.
Karin said that there are many variables that are still unclear. Gen asked the commission
to keep in mind that residents start planning now and we don't want to throw last minute
changes at them. Karin mentioned that she though we did it too close to the season open-
er last year. Pete asked what the numbers were from last year. Karin said that 128 family,
15 non resident, 2 singles and 9 senior passes were sold and that the last pass number was
#587. Gen said that children under 4 are not issued passes. Dennis suggested that we ask
the Town Clerk to include all member on the passes so we get a better idea of how many
residents actually have a season pass. Karin said she would ask Town Clerk to do that.
Karin mentioned that she also talked to Adam Burney about being included on the pay-
ment portal for beach passes. Karin's concern was the fees associated with paying via the
portal which appear to be low for check payments but high for credit cards. Pete said the
school is looking at doing digital ticketing and this may be something that would work in
our situation as well especially for day passes. Gen said they only did $256 in walk ins
and that some of those walking in were older teens who may not have easy access to a
card to pay online.
Dennis motioned to keep the 2018 fees the same as last season:
$50 - Resident Family
$35 - Resident Individual
$20 - Resident Senior
$75 - Non Resident Family
$50 - Non Resident Individual
Daily Rate - $5adult, $3 student
Karin seconded. Approved 3-0.
Pete asked Gen when she thought the beach would open for the season. Gen said that tra-
ditionally the beach opens to the public the Saturday after school gets out which would be
June 23rd this year. She also said that the Monday before the beach opens to the public
would start Life Guard Certification classes. She also mentioned that last summer the
beach was open for 9 weeks which the residents were happy about. Karin told Gen we
need to be mindful of the budget because the change in pay when the positions went into
the Salary Administration Plan changed things up considerably on that budget line. Gen
===PAGE 3===
Dennis motioned to open the town beach to the public from June 23rd to August
26th. Pete seconded. Approved 3-0.
Karin asked Gen to look around this summer and create a list of things that need to be
done or things that are needed. Gen said that one thing she would like to see added is an
AED device. Pete agreed and was surprised there wasn't already one there. Dennis said
he thought it was an absolute necessity and that we shouldn't wait to get one.
Dennis motioned to research the cost and find a funding mechanism for an AED de-
vice for Town Beach for the start of the 2018 season. Karin seconded. Approved 3-0.
Dennis and Pete will work on researching and talking with Town Manager and Jack.
Gen also asked about holding the Great Boat Race again this year. She said she was hop-
ing for a decision now so that she can advertise it when she starts advertising for swim
lessons.
Karin Motioned to allow the Beach Coordinator to organize and run the Great
Cardboard Boat Race on August 4th with a rain date of August 11th. Pete seconded.
Approved 3-0.
6) Turf Complex - Karin informed the commission that she and the School Committee
Chair met with Town Counsel last month. He said he found no documentation filed with
the Registry of Deeds. Based on that finding, stipulation in the votes taken by both the
Park Commission and the School Committee, seems to be complete. Heather Sroka was
also bringing this information back to the Superintendent and School Committee.
7) Wallis Park Playground - Karin updated the commission that remaining site work will
be completed by volunteers on April 14th. Community Build Day is May 3 and 4th.
There is a possibility that the truck arrives on May 2nd and will need to be unloaded and
some wrap up work may need to be done on May 5th. Sign Up information has put out to
the community. Lions club will provide lunch.
8) Whalom Luxury Apartments - Karin met with the Lunenburg Building Commissioner
as well as Builder Gary Lorden, Jack Rodriquenz, Loxi Calmes and a few others this
morning at the request of the Building Commissioner. Z.B.A executed an agreement with
===PAGE 4===
for access in snow. His thought was to put the playground middle to back, away from the
street. There is a fence that currently divides the property. There was some talk of remov-
ing the fence or creating an access point. Karin did mention to them that the playground
needs to meet code for safety including ground cover. Dennis asked why we would need
two playgrounds so close to each other. Karin said that this project was mentioned out of
the blue a few weeks go and up until that point she didn't know it even existed. She also
said that the building commissioner was very clear that the builder needed to follow the
agreement which was for playground equipment. Karin expressed her frustration to the
folks at the morning meeting that this information would have been nice to have prior to
the Wallis playground being executed as it may have changed some of the plans. Pete
pointed out that McNally is a popular area during baseball season and that the playground
would definitely be used. Karin said that Gary will take a design plan back to the ZBA for
approval.
9) Donation of pads for 90' diamond - Pete said that the Courtney family would like to
donate a pad with the Blue Knight logo as added protection near home plate. Karin sug-
gested that he consider brining it to the school to accept as a donation since it has the
Knights logo. Dave Passios chimed in that he agreed. Pete said that he would.
10) Discussion on long term plan / ideas / capital items for Parks - not discussed due to
time constraints.
11) Other Business
a) Unanticipated items - none
b) Correspondence, Announcements and Public Comment
Kim Meyhew updated on Earth Day. She said that the other 4H club that
was also based out of Lunenburg would like to do a dog agility demonstration. Kim said
the dogs would be crated before and after the demonstration. Karin asked if these were
working or service dogs. Kim said they were dogs that where trained by members of the
other 4H club in agility and they were not service dogs. Pete expressed concern about the
possibility of biting. Kim said that these dogs were well trained for these demos and that
there would be some sort of divider to keep the kids back. Bob Ebersole asked Kim to
make sure they are licensed and up to date on their vaccinations. Kim said they needed to
be in order to enter 4H agility competitions but she would verify. She also added that
their umbrella insurance also covers these types of demos.
===PAGE 5===
Bob Ebersole apologized for miscommunication in not getting information out regarding
changes in the draft charter that affected the commission. He said the Charter Review
pulled it back and will not be presenting it at the May town meeting. He is asking com-
missions to come up with a list of things that we look at as day to day vs. governance.
He also mentioned that the 7th grade boys from the 01462 Skate park came to Select-
board last night with two locations for their project: Grassy area between Kids Kingdom
and TCP and the land the Brooks house is on. He said that in order for them to move for-
ward with fundraising they needed to have a site selected. He said that the board voted to
support the boys using the grassy area between Kids Kingdom and TCP. Currently the
property is under the control of the town. Karin asked when the decision would be made
as to who was going to oversee the area once completed. Bob said he would hope to have
that decided on before the project broke ground.
Dan and Jean Proctor - Dan is coaching a group of Lunenburg boys in the Central Mass
Baseball league. The season starts the 20th of June and runs until late July and they
would like to be able to play on the 90' diamond at Marshall Park. Pete asked when the
schedule would be decided. Dan said the coaches will get together in early May to create
the schedule. Karin raised concern that there was a group that played there last summer
with no permission that has an outstanding bill. Dan said that was not this group. Karin
also mentioned that the Phillies already have an agreement in place but their game sched-
ule was still TBD but they stated they would have no home games on Tuesdays or Thurs-
days. Dan said he could work with that.
Karin suggested going with $10 per player for the season since these were Lunenburg
residents and it would also be in line with the other similar programs already using the
fields. She also gave Dan the contact information for Joe Ruth from the Phillies so he
could find out when their games were scheduled. Pete also pointed out that the Certificate
of Insurance needs to be changed and the Town of Lunenburg has to be listed as an addi-
tional insured. Jean said she would take care of that.
Karin motioned to approve Central MA Baseball to use the 90' diamond at Marshall
Park for 6 weeks starting in mid June at cost of $10 per player per season condition-
al on receiving Certificate of Insurance and confirmation of final dates. Pete second-
ed. Approved 3-0
Jean also mentioned that the fence in center and right field were in tough shape. Pete will
take a look and take it back to Jack.
===PAGE 6===
this?"
Dennis felt that we didn't have enough information put together yet and would
like to push it out. Pete agreed. Karin said she would let Town Manager know
and also suggested this topic be its own meeting so we could spend some time
working through the details.
12) Upcoming meeting schedule and agenda - TBD
13) Dennis motioned and Pete Seconded to adjourn at 9:15pm. Passed 3-0.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUN 20 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
