===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LINCOL
December 6, 2018
9:45am
Buntaburg Tour Hal
17 Main St.
Lunenburg, MA
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 14 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1) Dennis called the meeting to order at 9:45am. Attendance: Karin Menard, Dennis Mannone, Susanna Jewell, Heather
Lemieux, Jack Rodriquenz
2) Karin motioned and Dennis seconded to approve minutes from November 1, 2018 - approved 3-0.
3) DPW Director / Town Manager updates - Heather asked where the commission was on their capital planning list.
Karin gave list of Wallis Park Basketball Court resurfacing and fencing, Beach w/ Parking and Feasibility Study.
Heather mentioned that complete streets has parking at the beach on it. Dennis mentioned that the handicap entrance
needs work as the only way to get into the beach is from outside, not the building and its a gate that needs to be
unlocked. Dennis mentioned that we need to determine the town needs and what parcels of land would be available for
use and that when the open space plan is approved by the state we may have some grant opportunities. Heather
mentioned that the MRPC may be able to help with part of that process. Heather also mentioned that a capital request
was submitted for Wallis in the amount of 36k.
4) Financial Discussion with Karen Brochu, Town Accountant -
Dennis told Karen we were trying to get an overview of what town one we have, where the fees we collect go and
to get an overall accounting so we know what projects we can handle on our own. Karen said the money for field usage
and fees go into a revolving account. Karin asked how the money in the revolving account gets spent. Karen said that the
DPW Director is the one who signs off on it. Dennis asked what kind of revolving account it was and Karen said it is a
53D - Anything above 10k the overage could be put back into the general fund but the town has never done so. Dennis
asked if the beach receipts go there and Karen said they go in weekly. She also said that baseball fees and any other fees
generated for the use of parks goes into that revolving account. Dennis asked Karen where beach salaries and bills
(electrical etc.) come from and save said salaries are charged to the Parks regular budget and that neither of these were
paid using funds from the revolving account. Dennis said he'd like to have a look back to see if we need to charge more
===PAGE 2===
concerned with the overall size. He said he would like to see something smaller to see how it goes and that this is
going in the center of town near the Senior Center, Town Hall, Schools etc. and it just feels a bit out of control. Jack
mentioned that he still has not gotten an answer from them regarding the cost for maintenance. Dennis said he feels
doing it in phases may be a better approach. Susanna agreed and said she was concerned about the location as traffic
alone will be a problem. She wondered now that we have started talking about revamping Marshall Park if that would
be a better location especially if we could improve visibility. Heather said that if we are going to put the breaks on this
project now would be the time to do it. Anthony Caiozzo from the 01462 Skatepark group said that their current plan
mockups were for 10k square feet, that they are still fundraising and that they are interested in taking donations in
exchange for naming parts of the skate park. Karin expressed her concern at the size and asked how large the one in
Gardner, MA was. Anthony said it was half of the size they were looking at. Dennis said that although he is in favor of
the idea in general, he is not in favor of 10k square feet. Susanna asked how big of a footprint it was and Anthony said
approximately 1/3 of an acre. Anthony asked the commissioners to come up with a plan on what they would want
dropped in their laps. Heather reminded him that we need to be aware of how much input comes from the town side or
this becomes a prevailing wage situation. Heather asked what the maintenance costs were and Anthony said he has not
been able to get hard numbers from anyone. Heather recommended that the commission meet with Parks and said she
would set something up.
6) School Fee Discussion/Decision for use of Marshall Park - Dennis started off the conversation saying that we had
discussions with the previous superintendent about setting up a manageable fee schedule but that we never decided on
a final number. Jack added that it is also not clear who is responsible for what. In the past the lining was done by
either the former AD or some part time help that the DPW had during that time of the year and that the mowing was
done by the DPW. He said for his purposes it needs to be more black and white about who does what and that its
important because it comes out of the operational budget to maintain. Karin added that the Lunenburg Public School
High School JV and Varsity Baseball programs are the primary user of the 90' diamond. Superintendent Kate Burnham
said that she has had conversations with John Londa and the current AD and that they still need to determine what they
have the man power to support in terms of field prep. She said she would go back and have a conversation with John
Londa and the current AD to see what they can do and she said she would also talk with their finance director to see
what they have to help cover the costs. Superintendent Burnham asked if the $10 a head Parks tried to charge last year
was close enough to cover and Jack and Dennis both responded that it was a start but won't cover all the wear and tear.
Karin also mentioned to the Superintendent that Marshall Park is town fields managed by Parks and as such the school
-
===PAGE 3===
bruce,
Open Space.
9) Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting - none
10) Correspondence, Announcement and Public and Board Comment - none
11) Set next meeting date and agenda - TBD
12) Karin motioned and Susanna seconded to adjourn at 11:35.
