===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes September 18, 2019 Page 1 of 3
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission  
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Susanna Jewell, Vice Chair          520 Chase Road 
John Palumbo                              Lunenburg, MA 01462        
  
MEETING MINUTES 
September 18, 2019 
DPW 
520 Chase Road 
Lunenburg, MA 
1. Karin called the meeting to order at 6:00pm. Attendance: Karin Menard, John Palumbo, Susanna Jewell, 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux and DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz.  
2. John motioned and Susanna seconded to approve the minutes of July and August 2019. Approved 3-0. 
3. Town Manager / DPW Director Updates - Jack updated the commission that the Town had an agreement with 
a production company for the use of Fitzgerald Field. The field would be used for their catering services. 
Jack also mentioned that he spoke with the surfacing company about doing alternate options and they said 
that it would be more than what was allowed in the capital plan. Jack said his plan would be to move ahead 
with the project based on the original Capital request. Heather reminded everyone of the Special Town 
Meeting on November 12th and that the Capital Plan process was starting and to work with Jack if we had 
any requests. She also mentioned that part of the becoming a Dementia Friendly town is training and said that 
various groups in town would be offered training in hopes they could be involved in adding to this initiative.  
4. Recreation Director Interviews: 
 Hollie Lucht - Hollie discussed her background and her current job positions. She has a Bachelors 
degree in Psychology from Worcester State and an Associates Degree in Early Childhood Education from 
Becker College. She said she currently is employed by the Town of Berlin as the Director of the Council on 
Aging and the Town of Princeton as the Director of Parks and Recreation. She said that her passion is Parks. 
She presented information on the programming she currently provides in her position as Recreation Director. 
Heather Lemieux asked about her experience with Capital Planning and Hollie said she does that as part of her 
current position. Karin asked if she had any experience with Skate Parks and she said she did and her first 
question when one is being discussed would be the long term maintenance. Brief discussion with Hollie 
followed regarding what she envisions bringing to the Town of Lunenburg if hired. Ryan Stober asked if she 
was planning on staying with the 2 towns she was already employed by. Hollie said no that she would only stay 
with the Recreation Director position. 

===PAGE 2===
  
Park Commission Meeting Minutes September 18, 2019 Page 2 of 3
 Kayla Wright - Kayla Wright said she hails from Fitchburg and is looking to make a move to a position 
closer to home due to having a young family. She said she has a Bachelor of Science degree in Business and 
Sport Management and a Masters Degree in Sports Management as well as a graduate certificate in Athletic 
Administration. Kayla said she has held her current position as Director of Park, Recreation & Aquatics for the 
Town of Sudbury since 2016 and previous worked for the City of Fitchburg (Director of Parks and Recreation) 
and Town of Westboro (Assistant Director of Recreation) previously. She presented information regarding 
programming and the experience she has with collaboration with other town departments, especially the School 
Department, in providing programming. John asked if she had any background in repurposing fields for 
different uses and she said that she did and discussed the constantly changing needs of town residents and being 
able to adapt to that. Karin asked what her background was with aquatics and she said that in her current 
position she oversees the aquatics facility and programming. Susanna asked if green open space was something 
she saw as a need and she said she did. Heather asked her background on Capital Planning and she said that was 
something she has done in many positions and understands the process and also mentioned that she has 
experiences working with procurements processes as well as budgeting. Susanna asked how her current position 
was funded and she said it is a combination of the Town allocating money as well as being funded through 
programming. 
 
 Chris Letarte - Chris spoke briefly about his involvement with the organizations in Town as well as his 
involvement with the Playground Project at Wallis Park. Chris said that he currently owns a a woodcraft 
business and has supervisory experience as he worked for a warehouse in Leominster. Chris said he sees one of 
the roles of this position to be the eyes that are needed at the Park facilities, both safety wise and general 
upkeep, and being able to execute their repair. When asked what kind of programming he thinks is needed in 
town he said he would look to bring art programs and gage the interest of other programming as he got 
established in the position. Karin asked how he would handle working with the commission when he doesn’t 
always agree with their decision or vision. He said he would have no problem working together and would be 
another voice at the table during discussions. Heather asked if he had any Capital Planning experience and he 
said he has some from being an involved resident but was willing to learn. Susanna asked what he thought of 
green / open space and he said there was definitely a need. Dave Passios asked if passive recreation was on his 
radar as being a need in town and Chris said it was. 
After the interviews the group briefly discussed the candidates. Heather and Jack both expressed that the 
commission should order their recommendations. Karin reminded the group that we were making a 
recommendation and that the Town Manager had the final say.  
 
Karin motioned and Susanna seconded to recommend Kayla Wright as the first choice. Supported 3-0 
Karin motioned and John seconded to recommend Hollie Lucht as the second choice. Supported 3-0 
Karin motioned and Susanna seconded to recommend Chris Letarte as the third choice. Supported 3-0. 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes September 18, 2019 Page 3 of 3
5.Other business 
a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting.  
b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment - Dave Passios said he was in favor 
of leaving Wallis Park as two basketball courts and felt that removing them may limit the ability to do an 
in town adult basketball league. Ryan Stober said he was excited about the potential for the Recreation 
Director to bring forward an adult kick ball program. 
7. Next meeting date: October 16, 2019 
8. Meeting adjourned at 7:58pm. 