===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
David Passios, Vice Chair          520 Chase Road 
Susanna Jewell, Secretary                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Ana Lockwood, Member 
  
Park Commission 
Monday, January 25, 2021 
7:00pm via Zoom 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.  
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance from the Lunenburg Board 
of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps communities can take to prevent the 
spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public. In accordance with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain 
Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be 
recorded and be able to be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely:  
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/
88919974961or From a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 889 1997 4961#  
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. 
Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
 The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. V otes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up 
for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
1.Open meeting 
2.Discussion with Lunenburg Skate Park group regarding the pros and cons of building a skate park within Marshall Park 
and potential decision/vote on supporting a park and park size at this location. 
3.Other Business  
 a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting 
  b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment 
11. Set next meeting date/agenda 
12. Adjourn 
