===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG 
PARKS COMMISSION 
MINUTES 
Wednesday July 14, 2021 
6:30pm via Zoom 
 
1. Meeting called to order at 6:30. In attendance was Dave Passios, Chris Sullivan, Karin 
Menard and Ana Lockwood. 
2. Public and Board Comments none 
3. Approval of Minutes none 
4. DPW Director 
 1. Summer Programming Status and Updates. / 2. Free Summer Programs  
K Menard presented that The Ninja Warrior camp is currently running this week at TC Passios 
and another session is running next week.  The summer multi-sport camp is scheduled for the 
weeks of July 26th and Aug. 9th also at TC Passios. Both camps are run by Viking Sports. Refunds 
have been issued to all registrants for camps that have been cancelled. 
 3. All Other Updates.  
The town has advertised for a temporary park director and are currently accepting applications 
for the position.  The beach and swim lessons seem to be operating normally other than the last 
couple weeks of rainouts. 
5. Marshall Park Master Planning-steps for defining IFB and Scope of project. K Menard had 
circulated an email she received about the Marshall Park priorities list. She had a conversation 
with H Lemieux about where the responsibility lands for the Request for Proposals and that the 
Assist Town Manager would help.  Discussion on the lists and providing an overall scope of the 
commission ideas. Parking needs to be addresses, installation of a skate park and how it could 
be built, include a track and walking area, addressing the wetlands in the woodland areas, 
possible restrooms are some of the wish list points. K Menard will talk with J Belliveau to get to 
process going. 
6. Portable Toilet and Dumpster discussion and policy Select board would like a policy in place 
for the parks. The Board of Health has no regulations of porta pottys. K Menard got quotes 
from companies. One company quoted $100 a month for a standard unit and $140 for a 
handicapped unit. Included is a once weekly pumping, cleaning and restocking. A winter fee 
from November to March is an additional $10 for salting. K Menard quoted the price of $4-$500 
a month depending on how many units are needed. The policy created would be for the 
===PAGE 2===
Commission’s providing of facilities as opposed to the outside groups to bring in their own 
toilets, a different set of regulations that need to be created. Discussion on the park user’s 
responsibilities on bathrooms.   
K Menard gave an overview of the policy- 
1. Placement of portable toilets at all properties under park commission custody is at the 
discretion of the parks commission and shall be requested at time of field use application or no 
less than 7 days prior to delivery. 
2. A copy of the renter and service provider shall be provided to the Recreation Director, DPW 
Director, and Park Commission no later than 7 days prior to deliver.   
3. Portable toilets will be locked daily no later than sunset.  
4. Portable toilets shall be removed between November 1 and April 1 at all locations or when 
the location isn’t anticipated to be used by the renter for a season. 
 5. Cleanliness and upkeep is the responsibility of the renter. The Recreation Director, DPW 
Director and or Park Commission reserve the right to have portable toilets removed at the 
expense of the renter if units are not properly maintained including sanitization or failure to 
comply with these policies. 
A Lockwood made a motion to approve the portable toilet policy as written titled Parks 
Commission Sanitation Facilities Policy, D Passios seconded, vote was unanimous 
Dumpsters discussion K Menard reported that a camp’s trash was found in the dugout of the 
Little League.  There has been dump offs of TVs and couches.  We have a carry in carry out 
policy. A Lockwood reported trash left and dumped around the pond. K Menard sees three 
choices to address trash.  To institute trash cans back and have them emptied by the DPW 
Director rescinding the carry in carry out policy, not allow dumpsters at all or to allow them and 
create a similar policy of the portable toilets. 
K Menard gave an overview of the policy to allow dumpster. 
1. Placement of dumpsters at all properties under park commission custody is at the discretion 
of the parks commission and shall be requested at time of field use application or no less than 7 
days prior to delivery.  
2. A copy of the renter and service provider shall be provided to the Recreation Director, DPW 
Director, and Park Commission no later than 7 days prior to deliver.   
3. Dumpsters will be kept fully secured so it cannot be accessed outside of the renter’s events. 
4. All trash accumulated in the vicinity of the dumpster is the responsibility of the renter’s. 
5. Dumpsters shall be removed between November 1 and April 1 at all location  
===PAGE 3===
6.  Recreation Director, DPW Director and or Park Commission reserve the right to have 
dumpsters removed at the expense of the renter if units are not properly maintained and 
secured or failure to comply with these policies. 
Chris Sullivan made the motion to accept policy as written titled Lunenburg Park Commission 
Dumpster policy, D Passios seconded. Vote was unanimous. 
7. Discussion and consideration to rescind reciprocal agreement with Lunenburg Public 
Schools for use of Park fields. K Menard gave a recap on the history. The Recreation Director 
entered an agreement with the superintendent of the public schools that they could use the 
fields at Marshall Park for programs in exchange for park’s programming to use the outdoor 
field space at the schools for our programming needs. A request from the Rec Director got 
kicked back saying that because the vendor was a for-profit group, they would be charged a $50 
fee. The Camp got cancelled because they couldn’t afford the fee. School committee chair Carol 
Archambault and Superintendent Burnham joined the meeting. C Archambault commented 
that it was her board’s intent to work something out and the issue didn’t get to the board in 
time to vote to waive the fee. D Passios would like to have a consistent contact to communicate 
within the school system. Discussion on what falls under school committee jurisdiction or the 
Town boards. A School Board meeting will be scheduled to address waiving the fees and setting 
new policy. 
 
8. Discussion on invasive plants at part properties. D Passios talked to DPW Director about the 
maintenance contract with the landscaper at Marshall Park and the issue of poison ivy control. 
Chemical applications need to be posted when used is a question to be clarified. Will pass to 
next meeting. 
9. Open Space and Municipal Property Update A Lockwood reported that the title or status of 
Stump Cove has not been defined yet. The Open Space Committee is working on that. 
Discussion on the Pleasant Street, West Street and the wooded property that is offered to the 
Committee from Open Space.   
10. Other Business 
 a. Other business matters that may legally come before the board no known at the time 
of posting. None 
 b. Correspondence, Announcements and Public board Comment K Menard updated that 
the shed on the easement land has been removed. K Menard asked Commission members to 
take notice of any possible issues on the Commission’s properties adding that the Town legal 
counsel can take care of it. 
11. Next meeting date/agenda July 28th with Dog Policy, Poison Ivy at Marshall Park, Invasive 
Species. 
===PAGE 4===
12. Adjourn C Sullivan made a motion to adjourn at 9:12, A Lockwood seconded, the vote was 
unanimous. 
 
Respectfully submitted 
Dawn Pavone 
Minutes Secretary 