===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Susanna Jewell, Secretary                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Dave Passios, Member 
Ana Lockwood, Member 
PARKS COMMISSION
Wednesday, November 17, 2021
MINUTES
In attendance was Karin Menard (Chair), Dave Passios (Vice Chair), Chris Sullivan (member), Ana Lockwood 
(member), Rob Oliver (DPW), Julie Belliveau (Assist. Town Manager), representatives from Wright Ostermier 
Landscape Architects, Ray Dunetz Architecture, Weston and Sampson, and Warner Larson Landscape 
Architects.
Interviews with four ﬁrms with proposals for Marshall Park.
First interview is with Katherine Ostermier, Emily Wright, and Nicholas Betts from Wright Ostermier 
Landscape Architects (WOLA)
K. Ostermier stated that they have 20 years’ experience, are fully insured and certiﬁed WBE and have two 
ofﬁces in Massachusetts. The have experience in municipal projects as well as private sector projects.  They 
have done a preliminary site analysis of Marshall Park looking at entrances, wetlands and buffer zones. 
Stakeholder engagement is an important step in getting the community’s voice involved.
K. Menard asked if the timeline was doable, if they’ve worked with ADA and Inclusive projects, and have 
experience with multi-use athletic ﬁelds.
K. Ostermier commented that this project would be a priority for them. They have designed playgrounds that 
are universally acceptable. E. Wright gave an example of a light/shadow water and sand table in the 
Montachusett Opportunity Council.  They design to include play for all levels of abilities. N. Betts talked about 
the turf and its different uses in another project.
R.Oliver asked if they had experience with day camps.
K. Ostermier commented that they are working with Girls Inc. and Red Gate Farm in Ashﬁeld. E. Wright 
described the camper program there which has rustic cabins for their summer farm programs and are hoping to 
work on winterizing for winter student housing.
A. Lockwood asked about the Pro Bono worked they are doing at Red Gate. She also mentioned that the skate 
park for Marshall Park is already funded.
E. Wright responded that Red Gate is not Pro Bono but are working for Girls Inc.
K. Ostermier mentioned that they work with other engineers, etc. so they can come up with a plan.
C. Sullivan asked about the park grant program.
E. Wright said are working with some communities through the grant programs.

===PAGE 2===
K. Menard asked about experience and information on running community meetings.
K. Ostermier responded that they know how to run the meetings, coming up with questions and goals, making 
sure everyone is heard, coming up with series of activities to get an idea what the community would like to see.
D. Passios had questions on the plans to mitigate parking issues without loosing activity spaces.  He went on to 
inform of the trails along the pond and plans to extend.
K. Ostermier shared the Sudbury design to show the way to accommodate parking. N. Betts has a drone to scan 
site to survey the area. There’s a lot of opportunities to build on the trails and gave some example, boardwalks, 
etc.
D. Passios asked about the existing condition assessment being done at the beginning before public hearings to 
which K. Ostermier answered that they will collect all input before it is brought to the public.
Second interview is with Warner Larson Landscape Architects. David Warner, Sameen Bhoite, Josh Millonig, 
Charles Hay, and Charlie Wilkings and Emily Hunt was representing the ﬁrm. Been in business since 1978 and 
have several ofﬁces in the U.S.  Discussed the opportunities and constraints for Marshall Park in coming up 
with a plan taking into account the existing park and future proposals.
K. Menard asked about ADA and inclusivity.
D. Warner, E.  Hunt and S. Bhoite summarized that it would be a universal design to include seating for seniors 
and include all abilities in the park. One project they did has signs in Braille. Accessible sidewalks are another 
example.
R. Oliver had questions on day and summer camps. 
S. Bhiote stressed the need for more restrooms and facilities. D. Warner suggested more ﬂexibility in the open 
space and possibly clearing some of the forest area. A shelter is imperative.
D.Passios questioned connecting the loop to center of town on another project and whether it went through 
wetlands. Marshall Park has a potential old design to take in account.
D. Warner summarized the project in Rockport.
D. Passios commented on the facilities and overextending funds on events, portable toilets when needed.  Town 
has been unsuccessful on parking issues.
S. Bhiote and D. Warner could come up with solutions to address parking and maybe connecting to the high 
school and elementary school.
C. Sullivan asked about funding help to which D. Warner replied that they could through the Land and 
Conservation fund and Community Development.
The third interview is with Ray Dunetz Landscape Architect. Ray Dunetz in attendance. 
R. Dunetz 80% of their work is local municipalities focusing on sustainability. They work with other ﬁrms. 
They are working on another project in town. Some of the proposed ideas for Marshall Park are permeable 
pavement, nature play, walking trails, restroom facilities, etc.
K. Menard asked about the timeline and ADA compliance and inclusive to all.  R. Dunetz responded by saying 
play experience should be shared by many and all abilities and incorporates basket swings and rubber surfacing.  
It should be the forefront of design. Establish a working group to address issues.
R. Oliver was interested in the permeable surfacing and kid’s programs. 
===PAGE 3===
A. Lockwood mentioned that the skate park is already ﬁnanced. R. Dunetz would be willing to work with them.
D. Passios concerns were the overlapping of athletic ﬁelds. R. Dunetz conﬁrmed they were overlapped in the 
proposal. D. Passios asked if the cinder track would be a challenge to restore to original shape. R. Dunetz could 
possibly replace with permeable surface or cardpath mix.
Fourth Interview was with Weston and Sampson. Representing was Brandon Kunkel, Cheri Ruane and Amanda 
Gaal. 
B. Kunkel led the presentation. They have lot of resources to work with and approximately 700 employees.  
They use the existing park as a schematic plan in designing.  They rely on community engagement using virtual 
meetings, surveys and polling.  C. Ruane spoke of Marshall Parks historic and current features to be preserved. 
Summarized the plans overview and spoke of the public engagement.
K. Menard asked about the timeline. C. Ruane proposed the ﬁrst public meeting would be in Marshall Park.
C. Sullivan asked about the timeline. C. Ruane answered that there are phases of funding once the key pieces 
are identiﬁed.  
A. Lockwood asked if they would work with the skate park plan that is existing.
C. Ruane answered R. Oliver’s questions about the recreation program adding that they’d like to work closely 
with the camp directors.
D. Passios mentioned the forested areas aren’t currently managed.  C. Ruane commented that they would 
incorporate the removal of invasive species and forest management will be part of the plan.
J. Belliveau said the commissioners should rate the interviews and will meet on Monday to discuss and decide 
on one. 
Discussion on budget for the Master Plan and the budget of the actual project and if the ﬁnal decision if by vote. 
The ﬁnal decision is by vote. 
Ana made to motion to adjourn at 9:50, Chris seconded 
Ana-Aye
Chris-Aye
Dave-Aye
Karin-Aye
Respectfully submitted
Dawn Pavone, minutes secretary