===PAGE 1===
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160
David Passios, Vice Chair          520 Chase Road
Susanna Jewell, Secretary       Lunenburg, MA 01462   
Christopher Sullivan, Member                              
 
PARKS COMMISSION
Meeting Minutes
Monday, January 11, 2021
6:30pm
1.Karin called the meeting to order at 630 pm. In attendance were Karin Menard, Dave 
Passios, Susanna Jewell, Kayla Wright, Chris Sullivan, and Ana Lockwood.
2. Chris motioned and Dave seconded a motion to approve minutes from Nov 9th and 
Dec 1st : 
Dave yes
Chris yes 
Ana yes
Karin yes
(Susanna had tech issues here)
3.Rec Director, Kayla Wright, Updates:
! Winter programs are opened. Skating rink ordered. Fire dept will ﬁll it. DPW will 
help assemble it. 
4.Non Departmental Beach Usage Discussion and Policy Creation:
! Kayla has researched several other towns policies to help come up with ways to 
approach our policy creation. Most had policies where the applicant had to be a beach 
pass holder. several required that everyone attending the event had to get day passes. 
All had requirements that a life guard be on duty, some with additional charges for that 
life guard/s. Karin highlighted some of the issues that we have had in the past. Beach 
rental requests have gone through the town manager, not parks. Rentals are often 
requested for Sundays or times when the beach is not open and she has had to go 
down to let the renters in. Policy needs to be created so that it is clear what our 
expectations are. Chris asked about lifeguards- suggested that we should require a 
separate lifeguard for events, even if the beach is open and staffed. Ana suggested 
having that in a ﬂat fee, instead of parsing out a separate lifeguard fee. Susanna 
clariﬁed that we should always require a lifeguard, even if people aren’t going into the 
water. Karin and Kayla suggested a two week out rental request, to allow time to 
schedule lifeguards. Karin expressed an interest in making sure that Parks properties 
===PAGE 2===
are usable and an asset to the town. Kayla will work on getting pricing/policy to us for 
next meeting. Chris asked if there are additional costs incurred from rentals, ie trash, 
electricity, etc. Kayla will base the fee to include all of that. All renters will need to have a 
Certiﬁcate of Liability. Jared Bowser, guest and lifeguard at the town beach, was present 
for this discussion. He advised to not have too many events at once, given the size of 
the beach. Karin asked Jared about Sunday events and extra lifeguard work. He 
thought that would not be a problem. Dave commented that he agreed that there should 
be a designated lifeguard for all rentals. He requested that there be some language 
added to the policy for other town departments that might want to rent the lakefront for 
an event.
5.Hunting on Parks Properties and Vote:
! Parks commission has been asked by Conservation Commission to decide if we 
will allow hunting on Parks properties. Karin asked the commission if anyone had any 
strong feelings either way. Chris suggested we say no to all hunting, with any weapons, 
on Parks properties. Ana added to clarify that this should include bow and arrow, not 
just guns, and not just for hunting but also for target practicing,etc. Chris ﬁnessed the 
point to say “outside of an ofﬁcial park program”-leaving space for an archery class to 
be held at Marshall Park, for instance. All in agreement. Policy discussion-Karin 
suggested we say “No Hunting or discharging of ﬁrearms or weapons on properties that 
come under the care and control of Parks commission, unless sanctioned by the 
recreation department.” Trapping will be added at our next meeting. 
6.Marshall Track:
! The track might not be workable until late spring given the water table/drainage 
there. Dave proposing to revitalize the cinder track at Marshall by removing the organic 
matter off of the surface of the track, tilling the cinder, and compacting it. He has a 
volunteer to help with this. Dave hasn’t had the chance to talk to the DPW director about 
it yet but he will follow up. Dave wants us to think about the No Dogs policy in Marshall 
Park-would like us to consider allowing dogs on the track but not anywhere else in the 
park. 
7. Spring 2021 Volunteer Clean Up Days
! Dave is thinking that park users and others could come up with a list of things 
that we as a community could do to tidy up some Parks properties. Little League has 
done something like this in the past. Karin likes the idea. Chris suggested an Earth Day, 
April 22, kick-off. Dave suggested we start somewhere other that Marshall in late April, 
as Marshall has a high water table. Karin had a discussion with Conservation 
Commission recently about trail creation over at our newly acquired Northﬁeld Rd 
property. Chris suggested that we emphisize the clean up days as “family” oriented so 
as not to dissuade anyone.
8. Discussion on Park Properties improvements and planning including continued 
discussion about Marshall Park Master 
Plan.
===PAGE 3===
! Capital planning ranked this project 13/22. Therefore we will not make the cut for 
funding for this year. Aside from that, we need to move forward in planning. Karin 
reviewed the list generated by the parks commission and complied by Kayla. 
Marshall	  Park	  Priori,es	  
1.Track
2.Mul,-­‐purpose	  court	  –	  Basketball,	  pickleball,	  tennis
3.Access	  to	  pond
4.Parking/repair	  fencing	  in	  exis,ng	  areas
5.Picnic	  area/pavilion
Marshall	  Park	  ideas:
1.Nature	  Trail/Walking	  trails	  –	  connect	  to	  town	  center
2.Mul,-­‐purpose	  ﬁeld
3.Fitness	  circuit/area
4.Reduce	  baseball	  ﬁelds/make	  them	  more	  adjustable
5.Open	  space/non-­‐designated	  space
6.Skatepark
7.Pocket	  park	  at	  Marshall	  Pond
8.Disc	  golf
9.Tot	  lot/trike	  path
10.Public	  restrooms	  (where	  able	  to	  connect	  to	  town	  sewer)
11.Park	  maintenance	  building
12.Fully	  compliant	  concession	  stand
13.Signage	  –	  Chestnut	  street	  side
14.Improve	  parking	  on	  Chestnut	  street	  side
15.Accessibility	  throughout
16.Visibility	  to	  courts
17.Dog	  Park
18.Bleacher	  areas	  for	  li]le	  league	  ﬁeld
19.New	  Playground	  equipment
20.Fencing	  around	  playground	  area
===PAGE 4===
21.Gardens
Chris said that there seems to be a consensus on the commission that if there is a 
skateboard park in town then it should be in Marshall park. He would like to see a dog 
park area there too. Dave mentioned a seasonal skate rink on a paved area, otherwise 
used in the other seasons. Chris asked about skating on the actual pond. Dave 
responded that it is less reliable in terms of safety. Dave brought up horseshoe pits. 
Karin brought up the Little league and was wondering what their needs are, given theri 
reduced numbers. We could possibly gain some space at Marshall that way. Karin 
requested that we consolidate and clarify this list. Susanna suggested that the list could 
easily be consolidated without losing any of the content because several of the points 
were redundant. Karin wants to be sure to include seniors in our planning of the park. 
Dave suggested a picnic table near the town pound on the pond. Ana pointed out that 
there are several things on our list that should be part of standard maintenance of the 
park. Susanna suggested that referring to benches beside the pond as a “pocket park” 
is the wrong approach as it may make it sound like a bigger deal than it is-purchasing 
and installing picnic tables or benches is not building a park. Kayla agreed-maybe leave 
that type of thing off of the master plan wish list as it is something we could just buy and 
install separately. Karin requesting that we remove the items that don’t belong on the list 
and get it to Kayla before the next meeting. Dave requesting that we get a complete and 
total survey done professionally as soon as possible. Karin reminding the commission 
about our upcoming meeting w the Skateboard Park. Dave asked the commission-do 
we want to get something on the warrant for May-for consulting help or a survey of 
Marshall? Warrant for submission closes March 15. We will revisit in our February 
meeting. 
9.Discussion about creation of Parks Policy and Procedures related to maintenance 
and general use 
Karin: It’s time to be proactive instead of reactive. What priorities do we want to focus 
on? Lets work on policy in chunks instead of trying to do it all at once. Susanna 
suggested we go park by park to think about what each parks issues are. Ana 
suggested we approach it piece by piece and build a policy over time. Karin is thinking 
to start with maintenance. Procedure on how organizations need to report things to the 
Parks commission that need our attention. Examples are broken fences, trash, mowing. 
Karin will put it on our next agenda to discuss maintenance policy. 
10.Revolving account
! The warrant article discussed last meeting was not the ﬁnal word on the revolving 
fund. Karen Brouchue caught the mistake when she watched our last meeting. The 
Beach exclusion was removed two years after the one we discussed. All of the money 
that is coming in now is rightfully ours. Dave-are we under the best kind of revolving 
account that we could be under? Dave is concerned that we would be limited on what 
we could use the money for. Spending down under $30k v not having to. Karin not 
against changing to a different form. Susanna not feeling informed enough to discuss it 
right now. Will do homework for next meeting. Karin will add it to the next agenda.
===PAGE 5===
11.Open Space Representation-
! Chris was thinking about volunteering, but declined. Ana volunteered. Karin 
nominated her, Dave seconded. Roll call vote and all in favor. 
12. Next meeting is January 25 with the Skateboard Park. In preparation for the meeting 
Karin asked commission to think of where within the park we could picture the 
Skateboard Park. Dave recommended using Google Earth Pro to look at Skatepark 
placement. 
13.February meeting-Susanna requested a Thursday or Friday. Feb 12. 630 pm.
14.Motion to adjourn by Chris 8:33, seconded by Susanna. Roll Call Vote:
Susanna yes
Dave yes
Ana yes
Chris yes
Karin yes
!!