===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Chris Sullivan, Member
approvel 9/14/2022
PIS INCORP
Meeting Minutes
Joint Meeting with Select Board
August 2, 2022
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 15 2022
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Ana called the meeting to order at 7:12pm.
Park Commission members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Patrick Hakey and Chris Sullivan
Select Board members present Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Tom Alonzo, Louis J. Franco, Todd Dwyer and Heather Sroka.
K. Menard gave a presentation with the background of the project and the final design that has been selected.
K. Menard's presentation included the following:
Background
K. Menard stated currently Marshall Park consists of a softball field, Little League field known so Powell Park, a 90 foot
baseball diamond, t-ball field and there are no bathroom facilities.
K. Menard indicated the Marshall Park playground was antiquated, the Softball field house is in disrepair, the parking is
problematic, there is a dirt lot off Mass. Ave., it is not ADA compliant, the fitness circuit, Basketball court and skate park
are all unusable.
Marshall Park was chosen because of its central location and large footprint.
K. Menard stated in May 2021 Town Meeting approved Capital Plan that included $50,000 for the Marchall Park
Masterplan. Just under $37,000 has been expended to date.
The Parks Commission chose WOLA out of the four architects to design the park. WOLA presented 2 different layouts.
The Commission, receiving public and Commission feedback selected option 1, to include, pickle ball and basketball
courts, a skate park, walking paths, a new 90 foot baseball diamond, Softball & Little League fields, pollinator gardens, a
dog park, snack shack, access to Marshall Pond and additional parking off of Massachusetts Avenue and Chestnut Street.
K. Menard noted the approximate 8,000 square foot Skate Park will start construction in the Spring of 2023. The Site
Engineering and Geotechnical report have been completed. The Skate Park is independently fundraising and considered a
private project.
K. Menard explained some of the highlights of the plan.
K. Menard noted the following:
38 parkling spots off Chestnut Street and 94 parking spots at the Massachusetts Ave. entrance.
The new walking paths are 8 feet wide and ADA compliant.
3 pickleball courts
===PAGE 2===
Dog park
Main park has access to Marshall Pond via a 4 foot wide path
K.Menard noted the next steps are to get funding to survey the entire property, Engineering development, Schematic
design and construction.
A. Lockwood stated the goal tonight is to seek the support of the Select Board. A. Lockwood noted timing is crucial for
funding and grants for Engineering.
Public Comment
A few residents spoke in support of the Marshall Park Masterplan and applauded the Commission for all the work they
have done on the project this far.
M. Jeffreys asked what the overall projected cost of the project was. K. Menard reiterated $36,000 has been expended, the
next phase is estimated at $160,000. K. Menard stated the overall cost estimate from WOLA is $5 million.
H. Sroka asked how long the project would be. K.Menard stated no idea, it is all dependent on funding. C. Sullivan stated
the timeline is a difficult thing to pinpoint. They are trying not to disrupt teams that are active and it depends on grants
T. Dwyer asked about lighting upgrades. K. Menard noted that was not added in the first round. K. Menard noted it is not
cost effective to light the fields. C. Sullivan indicated there was mention of a utilities line item for site lighting, pathways,
electrical and power for lighting.
K. Menard noted they are looking into removal of the lily pads in the pond. K. Menard stated they will be relying on the
DW Director to work with Conservation and the State to manage this task. A. Lockwood noted this is separate from the
Masterplan.
T. Alonzo stated he supports Park Commission's vision.
M. Jeffreys asked if the new parking would resolve the parking problem. K. Menard feels it is adequate for regular games
but still may pose a problem during double and triple play-off games. M. Jeffreys asked what the combined parking was.
A. Lockwood stated 130 spots between the both lots.
There was a question regarding the memorial items in the park. K. Menard stated there is no policy in place yet, the items
in Memoriam are existing.
M. Jeffreys asked about the Board of Health funding. A. Lockwood stated the Board of Health received the funds from the
State to assist with septic repairs.
The Town Manager thanked the Commission for all their work and noted it was a very commendable effort.
C. Sullivan noted the Board of Health/septic system is separate from the Masterplan.
T. Dwyer made a motion to support the Marshall Park Master Plan as presented by the Parks Commission. H. Sroka
seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0).
