===PAGE 1===
Park Commission May 18, 2022 Minutes Page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Karin Menard, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Ana Lockwood, Member                          Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Dave Passios, Member 
Pat Hakey, Member 
May 18, 2022
MINUTES
Members present: Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, Dave Passios, Ana Lockwood and Patrick Hakey.
Absent: none
Additional Attendees: Rob Thompson, Recreation Director.
K. Menard called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM and read the “This meeting is being broadcast live and 
digitally recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Board and Public Comment, none.
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes, March 16 and 29, 2022
C. Sullivan made a motion to accept the minutes with the amendment of the correct to the spelling of 
Kathryn's last name to read Ostermier.  D. Passios seconded. Roll Call Vote,
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A.Lockwood - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
Next item on the agenda, DPW, Town Manager and Recreation Director updates with discussion.
R. Thompson indicated the mowing of the ﬁelds once a week are not enough. K. Menard stated the DPW 
maintains the mowing schedule.
Summer / Fall Programming discussion

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission May 18, 2022 Minutes Page  of 42
R. Thompson stated MA Sports will be providing multi-sports events, events to be offered are to be determined. 
A. Lockwood asked if there were camps this year. R. Thompson stated there will be programs available, not 
camps. A. Lockwood asked which age groups. R. Thompson stated 7 through 13 years of age. K. Menard 
suggested posting the in program information on the website and emailing it out through My Rec.  A. 
Lockwood again volunteered her assistance with the website.
R. Thompson noted Best Soccer to return this season and he has had conversations with Paul Mumby. K. 
Menard suggested reaching out to Paul to verify which ﬁeld he would prefer, turf or grass. K.Menard requested 
R. Thompson get something in writing from the Superintendent of the school that the use of the ﬁeld are at no 
additional cost.
K. Menard asked if the cardboard boat race would be held. R. Thompson stated he was looking into it, as well 
as additional workshops for teens and social events.
K. Menard asked if R. Thompson could explore an intro into Pickleball. R. Thompson stated it is a growing 
sport and will research it.
D. Passios suggested easing into programming and keeping it simple. K. Menard stated programs were 
successful in the past without a Program Director, Best Soccer and MA Sports run themselves.
Next on the agenda, Skate Park updates.
Anthony Caiozzo explained the items which they have been working on as:
1. Fundraising, of which $180,000 has been achieved. 
2. Engineering and design work are underway. Geotechnical survey has been scheduled and executed and 
there is a third party to do the site work. 
3. Local logistics and legal work. A. Caiozzo noted Greg Roy is handling items #2 & 3. 
Anthony Caiozzo has created a chart for the timeline, hoping for approval by Thanskgiving then site work to 
start. K. Menard asked if construction would start in the Spring of 2023. A. Caiozzo stated yes.
K.Menard ask if there were performance bonds. A. Caiozzo stated the contractor would obtain the bonds.
Anthony Caiozzo informed the Commission another fundraiser with dumpster will be happening this upcoming 
weekend. A. Caiozzo stated they are working with MassDOT and the schools to hold a bike, skate and scooter 
rodeo, open to ages 4-10 and is a free event and held in the upper lot of the school. The event will be held 
August 23, 2022 with a rain date of August 24, 2022.
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission May 18, 2022 Minutes Page  of 43
Next item on the agenda, 2022 Spring usage compliance
K. Menard asked for the update on the portable toilets and dumpsters. R. Thompson stated the information for 
the toilets has been supplied, the toilets have been reinstated andthe Board of Health is satisﬁed.
R. Thompson noted the trash policies have not been followed by all parties. R. Thompson noted there is a carry-
in carry-out trash policy.
D. Passios asked if all paperwork has been received for the toilets and the dumpsters. R. Thompson stated yes, 
the toilet for all the leagues but not the dumpsters. D. Passios noted the paperwork gets approved by the Board 
of Health before being submitted to the Parks Commission. K. Menard suggested R. Thompson review the 
policies and forward the information to the proper parties.
K. Menard asked if the Little League is paid in full. R. Thompson stated they were in arrears from the Fall of 
the previous season. R. Thompson noted he had received an email stated the Little League will be resolving the 
arrears.
K. Menard asked if there was a schedule and breakdown by division. R. Thompson indicated there was a 
timeframe and schedule on My Rec calendar. K.Menard asked about summer usage. R. Thompson stated the 
Phillies and a Florida Little League have requested usage. K. Menard noted the Summer season is not covered 
by the Spring season usage fees.
Next item on the agenda, Wallis Basketball Court updates.
K. Menard noted there were no updates on the repairs.
D. Passios requested the trash policy be sent to the High School Basketball and Softball teams. K. Menard 
suggested sending it to the Athletic Director.
Next item on the ageda, Geocache placements - LHS Senior Project.
K. Menard updated the Commission on this project. K. Menard stated John McCormick approached the Select 
Board for the locating of 4 Geocache placements on town property.
• 2 locations are on the Parks property, Veteran Memorial Park and the Town Pound. 
K. Menard indicated there will be a magnetic black box with a log book located at Veteran’s Memorial Park. 
The one located at Town Pound will be in a camouﬂage test tube with a small log and pencil and some sort of 
swag.
K. Menard noted the Select Board has ok’d it with the ﬁnal approval from the Parks Commission.
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission May 18, 2022 Minutes Page  of 44
C. Sullivan asked about the lifespan and the maintenance. K.Menard stated the Parks Commission is not 
responsible for maintenance plus the Geocache are not invasive and easily maintained. A. Lockwood suggested 
the placement not be on the wall. K. Menard will emphasis the tube not be place on the wall or the gate.
A.Lockwood made a motion to allow the Geocache placement at the Veteran’s Memorial Park and Town 
Pound, not on the Historical feature of the Park.  C. Sullivan seconded. 
D. Passion stated a note to be added to the Geocache that this is a Historic site and please respect that. Roll 
Call Vote,
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
Next on the agenda, Beach Season 
K. Menard indicated the Town Manager is working on Asbestos Remediation therefore the building will not be 
in use for this summer.
R. Thompson stated he has spoken to Nashoba regarding the toilets and they express the location was not the 
bast and the concern with the potential for being tipped over. R. Thompson is considering a containment plan. 
R. Thompson noted he has submitted the paperwork to the Board of Health. D. Passios stated Nashoba needs to 
come before the Board of Health.
R. Thompson noted the gate will be installed May 26, 2022 and pop-ups have been ordered for shelter.
K. Menard asked if Peter Hennessey’s application had been submitted. R. Thompson stated the application has 
been received. 
Discussion on beach opening date.
K. Menard made a motion to open the beach June 18, 2022.  D. Passios seconded. 
Roll Call Vote,
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
===PAGE 5===
Park Commission May 18, 2022 Minutes Page  of 45
Next item, Marshall Park - next steps
K. Menard indicated the wetland ﬂagging needs to be done, a request has been put in to Matt Marro.
The Commission discussed what order the phases should go in and grant possibilities.
K. Menard noted K. Ostermier had sent over some grant information. A. Lockwood suggested meeting with the 
Town Manager and Select Board to discuss ﬁndings and goals and, also which funds can be used. D. Passios 
suggested forwarding the phases presented by WOLA and the members list of priorities.
D. Passios spoke with the Town Manager to write an extend to the scope of work for WOLA to do the schematic 
design for Marshall Pond. D. Passios noted the surveying can’t be done until after July 1, 2022. D. Passios 
should have an engineering ﬁrm in place for July 1, 2022. 
C. Sullivan stated WOLA has not submitted the balance for the budget. D. Passios noted $20,000 was 
reappropriated at Town Meeting from the track behind the school to pay for the survey.
K. Menard will reach out to the Town Manager and the Select Board.
Next item on the agenda, McNally Field and Snack Shack 
K. Menard indicated there are structural concerns with the condition of the second ﬂoor in the snack shack. It is 
not in use now and has not been for a couple years.
K. Menard noted the Town had built the ﬁeld and she gave a brief history of the McNally family’s involvement. 
K. Menard suggests the Commission decide on repairing or demolishing the building.
K. Menard indicated the parcel and building owned by the Water Department is not currently in use as the Water 
Department has relocated to Mass. Ave. D. Passios stated there is a possibility to negotiate a long-term use or 
take it over. D. Passios noted the sewer betterment was paid but the property never hooked into the sewer.
D. Passios suggested having a conversation with the Water District to see about the possibility of using the 
property.
D. Passios reached out to the Sewer Commission about the cost of tying into the sewer.
D. Passios will reach out to get on the Water Districts agenda.
D. Passios noted he does not want to put money into Fitzgerald Field
No softball or 90 foot diamond duplicates.
===PAGE 6===
Park Commission May 18, 2022 Minutes Page  of 46
Next on the agenda, Northﬁeld Park.
K. Menard stated the debris ﬁeld mentioned at Town Meeting is actually on the Parks side - Northﬁeld Park. K. 
Menard will walk the site.
Next meetings are scheduled for June 15,  and July 20, 2022 at 7 pm.
Ana Lockwood made a motion to adjourn. D. Passios seconded. Roll Call Vote
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A.Lockwood - yes
All in favor, motion carried.
 Adjourned: 9:55 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Secretary