===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes Page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
Pat Hakey, Member 
June 28, 2023 
Meeting Minutes 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, and Patrick Hakey 
Absent: Colleen Shapiro 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Discussion and feedback on WOLA presentation 
K. Ostermier presented a new rendered plan of the Marshall Park Project and reviewed the changes. 
The changes are as follows: 
•Mass Ave entrance has been modified and a gate has been added for access 
•Storage and dumpster area added. 
•Bullpens added to the Softball Field. 
•Stone dust storage area added for the Softball and 90 foot diamond. 
•A dashed line marking out a youth soccer field on the 90 foot diamond. 
•Left field has a 325 foot foul pole. 
•375 Center field and 300 foot Right field. 
•Boardwalk now has angular turns, no radial cuts 
•Emergency access at the Chestnut Street lot. 
•Pathway along the edge on the Little League field connecting to the loop by the Skate Park. 
N. Betts reviewed the Schematic Design and the grading with the Commission. 
N. Betts reviewed the utility and water connection plan with the Commission. 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes Page  of 42
K. Ostermier reviewed the site preparation and demolition plan. 
K. Ostermier indicated on sheet 101 the fieldstone wall will be protected, it is historic and was funded 
by Federal dollars. 
Massachusetts Ave. side will have the existing T-ball and playground removed. 
K. Ostermier reviewed the layout and materials plan . 
K. Menard express her happiness with the plan and the additional access in the parking lot. 
C. Sullivan asked if the emergency access on Chestnut street was gated. K. Ostermier will look into 
that. 
P. Hakey stated he is excited to see the possibility of also having a soccer field option. 
M. Toohill expressed concern with the dog park and drainage. N. Betts will look into adding trenches 
and treatment. 
A. Lockwood asked is the angular connections on the boardwalk are ADA compliant. N. Betts stated 
yes. 
A. Lockwood asked is the emergency vehicles could access the Little League field. N. Betts stated 
yes. 
A. Lockwood asked if the septic system will be used. N. Betts stated no it would be to costly. 
A. Lockwood requested there be a note to save the stones from the stone wall.  
Next item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update 
Next item on the agenda, Discussion for designation a liaison to work with the Green Community 
Committee regarding the Marshall Park Renovation Project. 
C. Ruth stated he had no updates. 
A. Clement stated the following updates: 
•The first Rec program ran with smaller numbers but there are more numbers coming. 
•Painting started at the Beach House. 
•Swim lessons are full for Saturdays. 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes Page  of 43
•The scanning has been helpful at the beach. 
A. Lockwood asked if the rocks by the beach has been remediated. C. Ruth stated he is waiting to 
hear from Solitude. 
A. Lockwood asked if the sand request was 60 yards. C. Ruth stated 60 yards was a previous request 
and his request was 15-20 yards. 
A. Lockwood asked C. Ruth to go back to the Conservation Commission and asked to do the sand 
now and do the reclaiming in the Fall. 
Next item on the agenda, Discussion for designating a liaison to work with the Green Community 
Committee regarding the Marshall Park Renovation Project. 
P. Hakey offered to be the liaison. 
Next item on the agenda, Naming Policy Review Draft, discussion, and possible vote. 
K. Menard read the Draft Naming Policy. 
The Commission discussed changes and additional word. 
Adding a time limit 
Details of sponsorship. 
K. Menard will forward the draft to A. Clement for posting on My Rec for public feedback. 
A. Lockwood also will post to Facebook and speak to the Little League. 
Next item on the agenda, Beach House Work 
A. Lockwood asked K. Menard to share the materials list with Lynn Major. K. Menard would like A. 
Clement to post the list to My Rec and do a blast through My Rec. K. Menard suggested reposting on 
the social media, and multiple pages on Facebook.  
A. Lockwood suggested creating a poster and posting it at the Town Beach. 
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates 
A. Lockwood indicated she has met with WOLA to have them start work on a basis of design report. 
The report is needed for grants. 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes Page  of 44
A. Lockwood stated the right of entry language has been received from Greg Roy. A. Lockwood will 
forward to Town Counsel. 
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes 
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve the minutes from May 31, 2023 as amended and April 19, 
2023. K. Menard seconded.Roll call vote. Motion carried (3-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
Next item on the agenda, Commission comments. 
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting July 12, 2023 at 7 pm. 
 Adjourned: 9:13 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary
       