===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
April 19,2023
MINUTES
JUN 29 2023
"LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Dave Passios, Christopher Sullivan, and Patrick Hakey
Absent: none
Additional Attendees:Emily Wright, Kathryn Ostermier, Chris Ruth, Joe Ruth and, Angela Clement.
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read "This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally recorded."
First item on the agenda, WOLA Landscape Architects and Meridian Associates regarding Marshall Park Schematic
Design.
K. Ostermier stated there was a site visit with a few of the Commission members, C. Ruth and N. Betts of Meridian which
was the kick-off to the Schematic Design Process.
K. Ostermier gave an overview of the schedule for the design process and what is included.
K. Ostermier stated the survey was received last week and a site walk was done to verify the survey. The Concept Design
turns into the Schematic Design by using an accurate field survey and newly delineated wetlands so to move closer to a
more accurate cost estimate and the ability to apply fo refunding sources.
The next step is to develop the schematic set which will take the dimensions and begin the grading process.
K. Ostermier indicated the 50% Schematic set will be reviewed with the town for feedback and refine the design as
needed.
K. Ostermier stated the plans will include the following:
•
Site demolition plan
Utilities plan
===PAGE 2===
the Schematic set would bring it to the permitting process.
C. Sullivan asked if this was the phase to look into a turf surface for a multi-purpose field.
K. Ostermier stated the cost estimate provided at this phase can provide some alternates.
J. Ruth suggested putting netting between the softball field and 90' diamond. A. Lockwood asked to have that considered
A. Lockwood asked what feedback K. Ostermier received from the survey. K. Ostermier indicated the survey reflected the
want for a dog park and t-ball as well as a multi-sport court. Also the possiblity for a Tennis court with Pickle Ball
stripping.
K. Ostermier asked the Commission to confirm adding the Softball field to phase one.
A. Lockwood had concerns with funding and hope to know more in May.
D. Passios asked if there would be a savings to combine phase 1 and 2. K.Ostermier stated she could quantify that
combination.
C. Ruth asked K. Ostermier to possibly have the 50% Schematic Design by the Annual Town Meeting in May.
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Cave Discussion
D. Passios gave some background to the Commission regarding the cave.
C. Ruth stated the cave seems to be still structurally sound and worth exploring to save it.
C. Sullivan stated if there is historic relevance its worth keeping but has concerns with the safety and structural integrity
and security. P. Hackey concurs with C. Sullivan.
K. Menard is not in favor of keeping it due to the location and cost. A. Lockwood expressed the same concerns K.Mernard
voiced.
K. Ostermier stated she does see the potential liability of keeping the cave. K. Ostermier stated it is important to get a
Structural Engineering to look at the cave. C. Ruth suggested drill a couple core holes and sending to a concrete testing
lab before hiring the Structural Engineering.
K. Ostermier suggested possibly removing the top of the cave and repurpose it.
===PAGE 3===
Landscapers have been around town.
• Powell Field seeded and sprinklers are turned on.
• The repairs to the net at Marshall are ongoing.
• Top half of Snack Shack at McNally has been removed, minor repair to building and the sign has been hung.
K. Menards asked if the Snack Shack is usable. C. Ruth stated there is currently a leak from the irrigation system but it is
being worked on.
A. Clement indicated the following programs that are scheduled or being scheduled for the upcoming season and will
cover 7 weeks:
• Best Soccer and Snapology are currently active
• Basketball starts the week after school
• Wicked Cool for Kids
•
Multi-sport program for 2 weeks
A. Clement is also working with the National River Watershed Association for an outdoor program.
Next on the agenda, Town Beach Staff hiring: Review data of previous year, candidates, and make recommendations
accordingly.
A. Clement stated they will have the same Beach Director and Lifeguards as last year: C. Ruth indicated that all rehires
have been notified.
A. Lockwood asked A. Clement to verify all staff are CPR certified and the lifeguards have their certifications. A.
Clement stated all certifications have been received and valid until 2024.
The following are the rehires:
Lifeguards:
Jarrod Bowser
===PAGE 4===
K. Menard noted there was no attendance data recorded for last year.
C. Sullivan made a motion to recommend the hiring of the returning lifeguards for the 2023 beach season. K. Menard
seconded.
Roll Call Vote:
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
P. Hakey - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
K. Menard made a motion to recommend approvalof Elizabeth Simeone to the position of Beach Director pending
confirmation of the completion of her Water Safety Instructor training. D. Passios seconded.
Roll Call Vote:
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
P. Hakey - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
Next on the agenda, Discussion and decision of Town Beach Fees
K. Menard reviewed the fees for 2022 as listed.
Day passes
• $5/ adult and included 3 children 15 years and under
• $2 per Senior or additional child
non-resident $10 per adult and included 3 children 15 years and under
non-resident Senior $5 per Senior or additional child.
===PAGE 5===
A. Lockwood asked if there was a person limit on the family pass. K. Menard stated family is defined as two adults and
three children under the age of 18 living at the same address. Additional dependents up to two living under the same roof
can be $5 per person added on.
K. Menard explained a senior is anyone over the age of 60, and an individual is anyone over age 3 and above, and a child
is anyone over the age of 18.
K. Menard noted swim lessons have not changed since 2019, $25 per child with a $75 family cap per session.
D. Passios made a motion to leave the fees as they were for last year on all levels. C. Sullivan seconded. Roll call vote
(3-2).
K. Menard - no
P. Hakey - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
A. Lockwood - no
Next on the agenda, Town Beach Use: Attendance data
A. Lockwood asked A. Clement what they could do to get data.
K. Menard stated in 2020 and 2021 registration was required through My Rec. K. Menard suggested using a clicker or
reaching out to Jarrod Bowser.
C. Ruth and A. Clement will look into this and report back.
Next on the agenda, Mowing Schedule
C. Ruth met with the landscapers and discussed setting a schedule, it is hard to pin down a specific day due to weather. C.
Ruth stated he told landscapers he needs notification before they fertilize.
A. Lockwood asked C. Ruth to reach out to the Little League and keep communications open.
D. Passios asked if the clippings would be bagged. C. Ruth stated yes, the first half of the season.
===PAGE 6===
Roll Call Vote:
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
P. Hakey - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
Next item on the agenda, Lunenburg Youth Baseball/Softball League request: To allow the league to place banners along
the field's fence
A. Lockwood made a motion to allow banners along the fence, no political signs and to be removed at the end of the
season. K. Menard seconded.
Roll Call Vote:
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
P. Hakey - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
Next item on the agenda, Wildlife removal from Park's Property: Policy discussion
A. Lockwood suggests any removal of wildlife should get permission from the Commission.
K. Menard and C. Sullivan don't want to see healthy wildlife be removed
C. Sullivan feels this should be considered on a case by case basis.
P. Hackey agrees they should come before the Commission.
D. Passios feels it should be left up to the DPW Director and the Health Department.
K. Menard made a motion requiring permission from the Parks Commission before planned trapping for purpose of
removal or destruction of wildlife. A. Lockwood seconded. Roll call vote (5-1).
===PAGE 7===
Tabled.
Next item on the agenda, Minutes
K. Menard made a motion to approve the minutes from February 15, 2023. A. Lockwood seconded. Roll Call Vote:
K. Menard - yes
• C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
P. Hakey - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
B.
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates
A. Lockwood discuss Earth Day and all the projects going on.
A. Lockwood stated she and Mary Wilson plan to attend the Select Board meeting May 2, 2023 to give an update.
Last item on the agenda, other business that may come before the Board.
K. Menard stated the forms need to be update.
C. Sullivan made a motion within our policies and procedures to change the phrase DPW Director to Facilities Director:
A. Lockwood seconded.
Roll Call Vote:
K. Menard - yes
C. Sullivan - yes
D. Passios - yes
P. Hakey - yes
A. Lockwood - yes
K. Menard indicated a student from the National Honor Society is going through the minutes from June 2016 through July
2022 to capture all the motions.
===PAGE 8===
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary
