===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes May 24, 2023 Page  of 61
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair       520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
Pat Hakey, Member 
Meeting Minutes 
May 24, 2023 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Colleen Shapiro, and Christopher Sullivan 
Absent:  Patrick Hakey 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, WOLA & Meridian Schematic Design presentation 
K. Ostermier briefly discussed the diagrammatic overall plan 
•Massachusetts Avenue entry adjusted to be a 2 way 
•Parking spaces 75, 2 different surfaces, paved and gravel or a pervious pavement 
•Skatepark in revised location as provided by the Skate Park team 
•Concession area with pavilions and restrooms 
•Playground 
•A Basketball and 3 Pickleball courts. 
•Softball and 90 foot Baseball diamond, path between has been removed and batting cages 
added 
•Restrooms near the proposed septic 
•Athletic storage added 
•Chestnut street parking lot has been reworked and walls added 
•Dog park where existing Basketball courts were 
•Trails added, one of which leads to an observation platform that overlooks the pond 
•Five parking spot off Highland Street, a Pocket Park and a picnic area 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes May 24, 2023 Page  of 62
C. Sullivan asked if the gravel part of the parking lot be lined/marked. 
C. Sullivan suggested the Massachusetts Ave lot not have 2 way traffic. 
K. Menard asked if there was a way to have an exit out of the gravel area of the lot. K. Ostermier 
stated she will look into it. 
A. Lockwood wants to make sure the walkway will be ADA compliant. Also, the walking trails. K. 
Ostermier stated they are still working on the grading for the trails. 
C. Sullivan asked if the 90 foot diamond could also accommodate a rectangular field for soccer. K. 
Ostermier will look into that option. 
T. Laford asked more lots couldn’t be added to the gravel lot. N. Betts will address this later in the 
presentation. 
T. Laford asked about security cameras. A. Lockwood stated this is something that will be discussed 
in the next phase of the project. 
C. Ruth indicated 300 feet is not enough for the foul ball pole, they should be 325 feet. 
N. Betts explained the gravel lot has to meet with MassDEP Stormwater standards. 
N. Betts explained the grading for the stormwater and the drainage system. 
N. Betts indicated Greg Roy has proposed stormwater efforts for the Skatepark, they will work 
together on getting a final design. 
N. Betts indicated the grading for the pathways is 4% and the parking lot is 2%. 
C. Sullivan asked if there was a way to create a turnaround at the end of the Massachusetts Ave 
parking lot. N. Betts stated they could make 2 spots into turn around areas only. 
A. Lockwood asked about the maintenance of the basins and the reservoirs. N. Betts stated the 
chamber systems rarely fails quickly. The systems themselves are susceptible to the water that gets 
into them. 
A. Lockwood asked about the life expectancy of the chamber system. C. Ruth stated if they are 
maintained correctly they will last a significant time. 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes May 24, 2023 Page  of 63
A. Lockwood asked about the possibility of bringing water and sewer in through the Massachusetts 
Ave entrance. N. Betts stated it could be an expense because of all the ledge but we can look into the 
possibility. 
A. Lockwood asked about the options for the septic near the pavilion. N. Betts would have to go back 
and look at it to see about upgrades. 
K. Ostermier explained to the Commission the next phases and the 3 chapters. 
1.Site Preparation plan which includes demolition of existing structures as needed. 
2.Layout and Materials 
3.Planting and Lighting 
T. Lanford asked if the lighting is designed to shine down.K. Ostermier stated they are designed for 
that. 
A. Lockwood asked where the cave was located on the plan. K. Ostermier stated it is Northwest of 
the existing Little League field. 
Next item on the agenda, Facilities Director and Recreation Director updates 
C. Ruth gave the following updates: 
•The net is up at the 90 foot diamond. 
•The landscaper have ensured the fields will be mowed the Friday before Memorial Day.  
•Working on the newsstand for the beach but waiting on the Conservation Commission. 
A. Clement gave the following updates: 
•3 classes are up and running, Snaology, MA Sports and Best Soccer. 
•A lot of beach memberships have sold, mostly families. 
•Swim lesson registration have come in. 
K. Menard ask what the deadline was for the Basketball Camp. A. Clement will send a message to 
Isaiah for clarification. 
Next item on the agenda, Gen Ness Celebration 
Public Comment 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes May 24, 2023 Page  of 64
Kalyn, Gwen, Caroline, Teresa, Molly and Lacey, Girl Scout Cadets, Troop 30638 spoke about Gen 
Nass and her importance to them. The Troop is proposing the Lunenburg Town Beach be renamed to 
the Gen Nass Memorial Beach. 
T. Laford supports theTroops proposal and suggested the Beach House also be named after Gen 
Ness. 
Lynn Major indicated a group has raised some fund to purchase a tree in honor of Gen Ness to be 
planted on the beach. The Conservation Commission is satisfied as long as it is a native species and 
the hole is hand dug. 
A. Lockwood would like to get repairs done before any name change takes place. 
K. Menard stated L. Major’s request is time sensitive as there is a tree on order. 
A. Lockwood ran through the list of what needs to be done at the Beach House. 
•Remove the carpet. 
•Install vinyl floor 
•Paint  
•Install baseboard 
•Powerwash outside 
•Paint porch railings. 
A. Lockwood feels there would be 1-2 days of volunteer work. 
K. Menard made a motion to accept the donation gift of the native tree as a memorial to Gen Ness, 
Cheryl Shaw, and Katie Kiefer to be installed at the town beach by Lakeview Nurseries. K. Menard 
amended to include the location be determined by the Facilities Director, his group and the group 
donating the tree. C. Sullivan seconded. Roll call vote. Motion carried (4-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
C. Shapiro - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
Next item on the agenda, Reorganization of the Board 
K. Menard made a motion to nominate A. Lockwood for Chair. C. Sullivan seconded. 
===PAGE 5===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes May 24, 2023 Page  of 65
Roll call vote.Motion carried (4-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
C. Shapiro - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
C. Shapiro made a motion to nominate C. Sullivan for Vice-Chair. K. Menard seconded. 
Roll call vote.Motion carried (4-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
C. Shapiro - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
A. Lockwood made a motion to nominate K. Menard for Clerk. C. Sullivan seconded. 
Roll call vote.Motion carried (4-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
C. Shapiro - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
Next item on the agenda, Master Plan Steering Committee 
K. Menard volunteered to be on the Committee. 
A. Lockwood made a motion to designate K. Menard to represent the Parks Commission on the 
Steering Committee. C. Shapiro seconded. Roll call vote.Motion carried (4-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
C. Shapiro - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
Next item on the agenda, Skatepark construction timeline 
A. Lockwood  indicated A. Caiozzo stated ground breaking will take place this year. A. Caiozzo told A. 
Lockwood their construction should be completed by June 30, 2024. 
===PAGE 6===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes May 24, 2023 Page  of 66
A. Caiozzo confirmed what A. Lockwood stated. 
C. Sullivan made a motion to add  the construction end date of June 30, 2024 to the up coming 
contract that will be drafted between the Park Commission and the Lunenburg Skate Park 
Organization. C. Shapiro seconded. Roll call vote.Motion carried (4-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
C. Shapiro - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
Next item on the agenda, Naming Policy Review Draft, discussion, and possible vote 
Tabled 
Next item on the agenda, Beach House Workday 
A. Lockwood suggested that C. Ruth make a stock list of materials needed. A. Lockwood stated when 
the list is received she will start community outreach for volunteers and donations. 
Next item on the agenda, Earth Day Celebration Wrap Up 
A. Lockwood reviewed her slide presentation with the Commission 
Next item on the agenda, Chair Update 
A. Lockwood stated the Commission received one million dollars in funding. 
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes 
Tabled 
Next item on the agenda, Other Business 
C. Sullivan welcomed C. Shapiro and thanked Dave Passios for his years on the Commission. 
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting May 31, 2023 at 7 pm. 
Adjourned: 9:42 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary