===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
approved 4/19/23
18 INCORP
February 15, 2023
MINUTES
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan Dave Passios, and Patrick Hakey
Meeting called to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read "This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally
recorded."
First item on the agenda, Minutes. Tabled
Next item on the agenda, Anthony Caiozzo, Lunenburg Skate Park President: Skate Park project and design
update
A. Caiozzo opened the discussion with the update on the Skate Park project. A. Caiozzo stated they have signed
with the Skate Park designer to design and build. A. Caiozzo reviewed with the Commission the design and
noted they addressed the drainage and grading.
K. Menard asked if the park had zero entry. A. Caiozzo stated yes, on both sides.
Greg Roy reiterated the Skate Park designer has been hired and he is developing a site plan.
G. Roy noted the following:
• They will obtain local permits and will need the Commission, as the owner, to sign the application for
the Conservation Commission (CC).
• There will be minimal earth work/grading.
• They are working with the Building Commissioner and the Planning Board to see if Site Plan approval
is needed.
• Would like to have a joint meeting with the Planning Board and the CC if possible.
===PAGE 2===
A. Lockwood indicated if the park is selling naming rights, the Commission has discretion and there should be a
discussion in the future if this should arise. A. Caiozzo the park is currently going to be named Lunenburg Skate
Park,
K. Menard stated they have to execute the Right of Access.
K. Menard asked what the timeline was for groundbreaking to completion. A. Caiozzo stated the estimated
construction time is about 90 days.
K. Menard suggested there be rules and regulations in place before opening. A. Caiozzo indicated he was
working on them. He stated he has used 50 plus parks as examples. A. Caiozzo stated he is working on signage.
D. Passios stated the Skate Park will need right of entry before the trees are removed in July. G. Roy indicated
they want a complete design and Order of Conditions from Conservation Commission first.
Next item on the agenda, Greg LaFreniere: Lunenburg Youth Baseball League Update
G. LaFreniere discussed the lack of participation in the past and how he is looking forward to growing the
program.
G. LaFreniere updated the Commission to the following:
• They have joined the Babe Ruth Cal Ripken League which allows them to play against 14 teams.
• T-ball & Minor League programs have 4-6 teams each
• Softball at the older level is thriving.
K. Menard expressed her concerns with communication. K.Menard asked if the field needed anything different
to accommodate the Cal Ripken League. G. LaFreniere stated no renovation is needed, it can accommodate
both divisions.
C. Sullivan reiterated the importance of communication and following of the Parks Policies and Procedures.
G. LaFreniere indicated he would share his calendar with the Commission.
D. Passios asked if the Baseball Association had a backup plan if Powell Field was out of commission for the
entire season. A. Lockwood stated the Youth Baseball League has offered to do some work, The town has
received quotes. A. Lockwood indicated C. Ruth would be the person responsible for coordinating the work and
the volunteers.
===PAGE 3===
K. Menard reminded C. Ruth to make sure the gate gets locked. C. Ruth agreed.
A. Lockwood asked G. LaFreniere and the Little League families to attend the Select Board meeting to show
support.
Next item on the agenda, Town Manager Update / Facilities Director Updates
C. Ruth gave the following updates:
•
They have interviewed for the Recreation Director position and have a few more in the next few days.
The own Beach House wall has been replaced and is sided, sheetrock will start tomorrow.
Will be working with the landscaper to ensure the baseball fields are maintained. The current landscaper
is under contract until June of next year.
K. Menard indicated the dates in the contract don't coincide with some of the opening dates.
K. Menard suggested having the landscape company notify C. Ruth when fertilizing and lawn treatments are
being done so the youth sports and the school gets notified.
D. Passios noted turf management may not be in the current contract.
A. Lockwood asked if C. Ruth has had a chance to look at the punch-list items. C. Ruth has reviewed the list but
has not been to the field yet.
A. Lockwood asked about the status of the McNally snack shack. C. Ruth stated he has spoken to the contractor
and is reaching out to another contractor for a price.
A. Lockwood noted the Friends of McNally Park would like the sign to be saved.
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates
===PAGE 4===
Fitzgerald Field
A. Lockwood stated she and K. Menard visited Fitzgerald Field and observed damage done to the field by
snowmobiler. A Police report has been filed.
D. Passios suggested reaching out to the Conservation Commission for some assistance as their land abuts the
field. D. Passios stated he will reach out to Conservation Commission.
Open Space
A. Lockwood stated at the last Open Space Committee meeting the Committee asked for the due diligence to be
completed by the Parks Commission prior to the Open Space Committee making a recommendation to the
Select Board that the care and control of 51 Parmenter Road be passed to the Parks Commission.
Earth Day
A. Lockwood stated Mary Wilson, Conservation Commission had reached out to partner on Earth Day projects/
events.
Marshall Park
A. Lockwood indicated the Select Board would like to Parks Commission to prepare a presentation regarding
Marshall Park and grants that could be used. The Select Board is deciding on using ARPA funds.
A. Lockwood will try to schedule a date that works for the Commission.
Marshall Park Construction Subcommittee
A. Lockwood suggested the possibility of forming a subcommittee to assist with the schematic design of
Marshall Park. D. Passios asked if the Commission should have an owner's project manager. A. Lockwood
stated that would be needed when the construction starts.
A. Lockwood will look into the process and requirements needed for the Commission to form the
subcommittee.
===PAGE 5===
K.Menard stated parking needs to be enforced within the parks. The Commission reviewed and discussed the
parking policy. K. Menard will work on the wording with the Town Manager and Town Counsel.
Next item on the agenda, IF Marshall Park: Review of Draft, comments, discussions on incorporating grant
languages, suggestions for moving forward and final draft plan.
C. Sullivan prepared the first draft of the landscape and architectural services for the IFB. The Commission
reviewed and discussed preparing a report.
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting March 22, 2023 at 7 pm.
Adjourned: 9:44 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary
