===PAGE 1===
Park Commission July 12, 2023 Meeting Minutes page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
       
MINUTES 
July 12, 2023 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, and Patrick Hakey 
Absent:  Colleen Shapiro 
Additional Attendees: Chris Ruth, Angela Clement,  Anthony Caiozzo, and Greg Roy 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update 
  
C. Ruth gave the following updates: 
• The permit for the sand at the beach has been received. 
• Application for a part-time fill in lifeguard has been received, Certification is active. 
K. Menard made a motion that the Parks Commission recommend adding an additional part-time, as needed lifeguard, 
Cole Kiefer and, if the licensing does come through, move on to hire someone else without returning to the Commission. 
C. Sullivan seconded. Roll call vote.Motion carried (4-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
P. Hakey - yes 
A. Clement gave the following updates: 
• All the swim lessons are full. 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission July 12, 2023 Meeting Minutes page  of 42
• Survey out for activity requests for youth and adult. 
A. Lockwood asked how the programs were running. A. Clement state the multi-sport age 5-7 may not run due to 
cancellations. A. Lockwood suggested the Commission make up the cost for the program to ensure it will run.  
A. Lockwood suggested A. Clement ask the company to run the program with 7 instead of 12 kids. 
A. Lockwood asked if the Nashua River Watershed Association had cancellations. A. Clement stated yes, there was a 
conflict with the parent. A. Clement noted registration is still open and 1 child has been added. 
A. Lockwood indicated A. Clement suggested having the Beach House dedication the same day as the cardboard boat 
race. 
K. Menard asked which other camps are available for out of town residents. A. Clement stated Best Soccer. 
A. Lockwood asked for an update on revenue totals for next meeting. 
Next item on the agenda, Lunenburg Skate Park Review Design, discussion, and possible vote. 
G. Roy gave the following updates: 
• Still have an open Public Hearing with the Conservation Commission for the Notice of Intent. 
• Skate park has been moved closer to the wetland and away from the pavilion. 
• Skate park does not interfere with the walking path. 
C. Ruth asked where the best entrance would be for the sidewalk to connect to the Skate park. 
G. Roy state the upper end would be best it is flat. 
C. Ruth asked about the discrepancy with the basin G. Roy is showing and the one on WOLA’s plan would effect the 
Conservation Commission approval. G. Roy stated there will be two separate approvals. 
A. Lockwood asked how close the basin was to the wetlands. G. Roy stated 30 feet. 
A. Lockwood asked if the Skate park would have a concrete perimeter. G. Roy explained the layout of the park. 
C. Sullivan asked if there were plantings to avoid that may interfere with the Skate Park. G. Roy stated the more you can 
minimize trees surrounding the park the better. 
K.Menard made a mothon to present the Skate Park design as presented. C. Sullivan seconded. Roll call vote.Motion 
carried (4-0). 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission July 12, 2023 Meeting Minutes page  of 43
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
P. Hakey - yes 
Next item on the agenda, Feedback on Schematic Design Presentation 
A. Lockwood asked for the Commission if they had questions on the Facilities Directors 40 point feedback. 
C. Sullivan noted the fence all around the basketball court was good to keep it contained. 
C. Sullivan stated the placement of the flagpoles could be placed outside of right field and the 90 foot diamond. 
A. Lockwood stated she does not want to change the parking. 
A. Lockwood noted WOLA does not feel the cave is safe to exist. C. Ruth stated there is some work to do and thought to 
go into this if they were to keep it. 
A. Lockwood will send C. Ruth’s comments to WOLA. 
A. Lockwood stated M. Toohill noted Stormwater management/drainage for the dog park and the three basins adjacent to 
the Skate park. A. Lockwood would like to ask N. Betts if there is a plan B if that doesn’t work. 
Next item on the agenda, Review Grant Application 
K. Menard reviewed the application with the Commission and noted that it has to be applied for online. A. Lockwod will 
be the contact for the grant. 
K. Menard stated they qualified for the larger grant due to the 100 parking spot. 
C. Sullivan made a motion to support the grant application as discussed. P. Hakey seconded. Roll call vote.Motion carried 
(4-0). 
K. Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
A. Lockwood - yes 
P. Hakey - yes 
  
Next item on the agenda,  Update from meeting with Green Community Committee regarding the Marshall Park 
Renovation Project. 
P. Hakey reached out to Dave Blatt but has not heard back from him. 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission July 12, 2023 Meeting Minutes page  of 44
Next item on the agenda, Select Board and Community Update Meeting on Marshall Renovation Project. 
A. Lockwood would like to meet with the Board of Health and get a letter of commitment to repair the septic. 
A. Lockwood will meet with the Select Board and give them and the community an update on the project. 
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting August 16, 2023 at 7 pm. 
 Adjourned: 8:58 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 