===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
May 31, 2023
MINUTES
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Colleen Shapiro, Christopher Sullivan,
and Patrick Hakey
Absent: none
Additional Attendees: Chris Ruth
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read "This meeting is being broadcast live
and digitally recorded."
First item on the agenda, Discussion and feedback on WOLA presentation
K. Menard read C. Ruth's comments and concerns on the presentation from WOLA and the
Commission discussed, the comments are as follows:
1. Is there a plan for the T-ball field. The Commission discussed and A. Lockwood
stated the comment they will give to WOLA is, "they would love to accommodate all
the current users and make the best possible baseball field without compromising any
other park feature". C. Sullivan reminded the commission that previous discussions
were that we would have a plan to establish a new T-ball location before removing T-
ball at Marshall.
2. Extend the distance of the field, the fowl ball pole should be 325 feet.
3. Confirm the size on the storage building and for it to be located near the dugout of
the 90 diamond and does not want to share it with Softball. K. Menard feels the
softball should also have the same storage. A. Lockwood will reach out to the softball
and Little League.
===PAGE 2===
8. The infield needs sod installed
9. Water run to dugout and a water spigot
10. Power to dugout
11. Power to scoreboard. A.Lockwood stated they need to keep the original as it is in
memorium of Jason Rogers
12. Confirm height and style of the net.
13. Bullpens needed on both sides of the 90 foot diamond.
14. Flag pole location. A. Lockwood suggest near the pavilion. C. Sullivan suggested 1
flag visible from all fields.
15. Move batting cages to where the bullpens are now.
16. Guardrail
17. Dumpster location having enough room for a trash truck
18. Show trail to Conrad on map and sidewalk.
19. Permeable pavers option for the overflow parking area.K. Menard suggested
removing parking spots for a second exit.
20. Lit bollards along the walking path between the 2 parking areas
21. Electric infrastructure for future field light. The Commission agrees the infrastructure
should be done.
===PAGE 3===
• Chestnut Street does not need lighting and doesn't want to compromise the
residential area.
• The main area turnaround be lit or maybe the main parking area.
• No overhead lighting for fields
• Possibly lights at Basketball and Pickleball courts.
C. Shapiro suggested post the park is open dawn to dusk. P. Hakey agreed.
C. Sullivan stated his thoughts on the lighting as follows:
• Suggested a path light to the Chestnut Street parking.
• Emergency lighting near the water.
• Emergency call boxes on the walking path
A. Lockwood would like to see the cost for lighting in the Mass Ave lot and paths.
A. Lockwood stated she will pass along all the information discussed to WOLA.
K. Menard will pass along information discussed to the Police Chief and get his feedback.
Next item on the agenda, Commission comments.
K. Menard asked the members to research other playgrounds in preparation for the next
phases and that she would like to see a playground that is inclusive and exceeds the
minimum ADA requirements.
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting June 28, 2023 at 7 pm.
Adjourned: 8:43 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary
