===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg  Park Commission December 6, 2023 minutes  page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                               
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
Anita Schiepers, Member 
    
MEETING MINUTES
December 6, 2023 
Ritter Building 
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, Anita Schiepers, 
and Colleen Shapiro 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update 
C. Ruth gave the following updates: 
• Submitted the list of projects to Capital Planning which include Hydro-raking at Marshall Park, 
Survey & design of McNally Park and resurface the basketball courts at Wallace Park. 
• Lakeview Landscape at the Town Beach this week. 
• Scooping out muck on the other side of the beach. 
• All infields for baseball & softball are cleaned up. 
 A. Clement gave the following updates: 
• TCP gym used more than anticipated. 
• Elf movie night is next Friday. 
• MA Sports program will run December 27-29, if there are enough sign-ups. 
• January sessions will be 8 weeks 
◦ Monday are private 
◦ Tuesday late night Pickeball  
◦ Wednesday afternoon Pickleball 
◦ Wednesday STEM program will have 1 session which will be 1 hour for 6 weeks. 
◦ Thursday beginners volleyball Jan-Feb. 

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg  Park Commission December 6, 2023 minutes  page  of 42
A. Lockwood asked C. Ruth where they stood in the ranking of all the Capital projects. C. Ruth stated in 
the middle. 
Next item on the agenda, Skate Park updates 
A. Lockwood gave a brief overview of the background for the newer members. 
A. Lockwood noted the following: 
• The Skate Park needs right of entry for the Parks Commission. 
• The building needs a letter form the State indicating the job does not require prevailing wage.  
A. Lockwood stated Attorney Costa composed a letter and asked the Commission for a vote. 
C. Sullivan made a motion to submit the letter to the Department of Labor Standards and authorize 
Attorney Costa to speak on the Parks Commission’s behalf on any other related further issues. K. 
Menard seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0). 
Next item on the agenda, NHS 
C. Sullivan stated he had spoke with a contact and stated there were a few clean-up projects that could 
be addresses in the spring. C. Sullivan indicated there were approximately 60 kids looking for hours. 
Historical research could be used as a Potential project. 
Next item on the agenda, 2024 Earth Day Celebration 
A. Lockwood asked for someone to assist Mary Wilson this year with organizing volunteers and 
advertising. C. Shapiro and A. Schiepers stated they would assist. 
Next item on the agenda, Town Beach Fee Discussions 
K. Menard indicated the fees for the past 3 years have been $5/ adult and included 3 children 15 years 
and under, Seniors were $2 per Senior or additional child, non-resident $10 per adult and included 3 
children 15 years and under, non-resident Senior $5 per Senior or additional child, resident family 
passes $65 , non-resident family $80, resident individual $44, non-resident individual $60, $25 for a 
Senior pass and $35 for a non-resident Senior pass. 
A. Lockwood indicated 161 beach passes were sold this season, revenue $9600 residents and $2800 
non-resident passes. 81 non-resident passes and 173 day passes and 41 senior w/ a child day passes. 
K. Menard would like to see swim lessons be self-funded. A. Lockwood stated lesson fees are $25 per 
child and $75 for a family. 
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg  Park Commission December 6, 2023 minutes  page  of 43
A. Schiepers suggested discussing this at a future meeting and gathering further information from other 
towns. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Renovation: PARC Grant Signatures 
K. Menard stated the grant is at the execution phase. Signatures required from the Commission. 
The members signed the agreement. 
Next item on the agenda, Community Updates 
K. Menard Master Plan meeting didn’t get posted in time, waiting on a new date. K. Menard indicated 
there is a survey online at PlanLlunenburg.org and there is a Facebook page, Master Plan Committee 
of Lunenburg. 
A. Lockwood stated the Open Space Committee voted to recommend to the Select Board that zero 
Lake Shirley Road and 52 Parmenter Road be put under the care and custody of the Parks 
Commission. The Open Space Committee will attend the January 16, 2023 Select Board meeting. 
C. Shapiro asked if there is access to Lake Shirley. K. Menard stated there is access to Lake Shirley 
through Stump Cove. 
A. Lockwood discussed lot 12, noting the Town owns it but does not have clear title. A. Lockwood 
indicated the Open Space Committee did pay to have a title search done. A. Lockwood noted that 
Micheal Toohill had a conversation with Town Council and they believe the the title can be cleared. 
A. Lockwood stated the if the two lots get passed to the Parks Commission, the goal would be to figure 
out what to do with the lots. 
A. Lockwood indicated that if the Select Board agrees with Open Space, then this would go to Town 
Meeting for a vote to move these properties into the care and control of the Parks Commission.  
Next item on the agenda, Chair updates 
None 
Next item on the agenda,  Approval of minutes 
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve the minutes with correction of April 11, May 24, June 28,  August 
16, September 20, and  October 10, 2023. A. Lockwood seconded. All in favor (5-0).  
Last item on the agenda, Next meeting: January 17, 2024 at 7 pm. 
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg  Park Commission December 6, 2023 minutes  page  of 44
Public Comment 
D Passios, Finance and Green Communities member and past member of the Parks Commission. D. 
Passios spoke on behalf of the citizens and the Town of Lunenburg for the preservation and renovation 
of the cave at Marshall Park. 
D. Passios noted that last meeting it was stated that the outfield was shorted because the cave was in 
existence, D. Passios does not believe that to be true. 
 Adjourned: 8:55  pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 