===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Minutes March 22, 2023 Page 4 of 4
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4160 
Dave Passios, Vice Chair         520 Chase Road 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Pat Hakey, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
March 22, 2023 
MINUTES
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Dave Passios, Christopher Sullivan, and Patrick Hakey 
Absent:  none 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director Update 
C. Ruth gave the following updates to the Commission: 
• The Town Beach House, all major structural work is complete. 
• Snack Shack at McNally field, contractor has been hired to remove the top half of the building. C. Ruth reminded the 
contractor to save the sign. 
• A Recreation Director has been hired. Angela Clement will be starting on Monday, March 27, 2023. C. Ruth stated her 
days will be Monday, Wednesday and Friday. 
• Town Beach staff, Beach Director and the lifegaurds from last year will be returning. 
• Budget update, an additional $5,000 in staffing has been added for programming and $10,000 for the purchase of service 
accounts. 
• Marshall Park, revised quotes have been received for the schemetic design. 
• Working on permitting to get the weeds treated at the Town Beach and Marshall Pond. 
• Marshall Pond light post will be taken out by the DPW. 
• Wallace Park basketball court surface is on the Capital Plan. 
• Veterans Park upkeep, C. Ruth will take the landscapers around when the weather breaks. 
• Fitzgerald, fence is on and locked and the sign has been rehung. The baseball field needs some work 
• Town Beach sand will be addressed in the Spring. 
• Powell Field vandalism damage had been repaired. The outfield needs to be seeded. 
• Marshall Park Softball Field, to be addressed when the snow is gone. 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Minutes March 22, 2023 Page 4 of 4
• Marshall Field 90-foot diamond, still trying to assess damage and the structural integrity of the poles. Fencing needs to be 
fixed also. 
•
D. Passios asked if the basketball court could be crack sealed before the resurfacing is done.  
C. Ruth will reach out to the appropriate people. 
A. Lockwood asked C. Ruth to have the fencing company look at the fence at the Marshall Park softball field. 
Next item on the agenda, Set Town Beach Opening and Closing Dates 
K. Menard stated Massachussetts General Law allows for seasonal staffing up to 20 weeks. 
 K. Menard made a motion requesting the seasonal employees application be submitted to the state with the dates of 
May 8  through September 22, 2023. C. Sullivan seconded.  
  Roll Call V ote: 
  K. Menard - yes 
  C. Sullivan - yes 
  P. Hakey - yes 
  D. Passios - yes 
  A. Lockwood - yes 
K. Menard suggested possibly opening June 24 - September 4, 2023. A. Lockwood would like to see the beach open on the 
weekends in June and through the first weekend in September if staffing allows.  
D. Passios suggested C. Ruth inquiry to adding another session to the swim lessons if staffing allows. A. Lockwood noted a 
Saturday sessions were not very consistent with attendance but it is a benefit for working families. 
K. Menard noted the Red Cross certification for smim lessons needs to be applied for early. 
K. Menard reminded C. Ruth there is a policy for portable toilets. C. Sullivan stated the company needs to be aware of the 
placement of the toilets. 
Next on the agenda, Earth Day Events with Conservation Commission: Plans, Dates, and Commissioners Availability 
A. Lockwood reviewed the properties and the project to be complete with the Commission. 
The following was noted: 
• D. Passios will be the contact for Wallace Park. The playground and the woods are to be done April 22, 2023 9 am - noon. 
The Lions Club will be supplying drinks and snacks. 
• C. Sullivan will be at Veterans Park April 8, 2023 9 am - noon. P. Hackey will assist if possible. 
• A. Lockwood will be available April 2 or 9, 2023. 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Minutes March 22, 2023 Page 4 of 4
• A. Lockwood will reach out to the Little League. 
A. Lockwood asked C. Ruth to reach out to the DPW for trash bags. 
A. Lockwood noted she would run the flyer in the Ledger and on Social Media 
Next on the agenda, Notice of Intent Filing and Site Plan for Lunenburg Skate Park 
A. Lockwood stated she has signed the document and it is in the meeting folder. This will allow them to start the permitting 
process with Conservation Commission. A. Lockwood noted no building permit or a site plan are required. 
A. Lockwood indicated she and K. Menard discussed with Town Counsel what the Commission wanted. Town Council has done a 
draft of the Right of Entry. 
A. Lockwood asked G. Roy about maintenance and which standard will be used for concrete. G. Roy will get that information to 
the Commission. 
D. Passios commented to the design team having a periodic maintenance schedule would be very helpful in the design proposal. 
Next on the agenda, Marshall Park renovation project funding update 
A. Lockwood indicated state grants and ARPA funds are available. 
C. Sullivan read an email received from the Town Manager indicating $250,000 was earmarked for the fiscal 2024 state budget. 
A. Lockwood spoke with the Town Manager about requesting funds for different phases. This would require a lot of work from 
the Commission. A. Lockwood indicated the Town Manager suggested asking for just one set amount to fully fund the project for 
2024 Town Meeting for FY2025, FY2026 & FY2027. 
D. Passios asked if anyone had looked into Federal funding. A. Lockwood spoke to M. Jeffreys and has asked the Town Manager 
to look into that. 
Next on the agenda, Meeting with Select Board regarding ARPA  
The Commission discussed dates that would work for them in April. A. Lockwood will check those dates with the Town Manager. 
Next on the agenda, Discussing on naming rights - tabled 
Next on the agenda, Discussion on Town Beach use by education institutions 
K. Menard reviewed the rental form and suggested adding wording such as, the Parks Commission encourages educational 
program with no fee for use with prior approval.  
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission Minutes March 22, 2023 Page 4 of 4
C. Sullivan suggests the wording of “school related “.  D. Passios suggested having the Facilities and Recreation Directors address 
this when needed. 
D. Passios noted the target date is April 13, 2023 and if C. Ruth is not available D. Passios will be there. 
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates 
Fitzgerald Field 
A. Lockwood discussed the damage to the baseball field from the snowmobiles. A. Lockwood stated the Snow Riders offered to 
help and A. Lockwood informed C. Ruth of that. 
Next on the agenda, Approval of minutes 
K. Menard made a motion to approve the minutes from January 2023. D. Passios seconded. Roll call vote, (4-0-1) motion carried. 
D. Passios abstained. 
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting April 19, 2023 at 7 pm. 
Last item on the agenda, other business that may come before the Board. 
C. Sullivan indicated he was approached by the 300th Anniversary Committee who would like to have someone from Parks on the 
Committee. C. Sullivan volunteered to represent the Commission.  
K. Menard wanted to publicly thank the Powell family for helping fix the damage that was done at Marshall Park. 
D. Passios was perplexed by the Select Board’s delay to appoint the new Recreation Director and this same item was on the 
agenda for last night’s meeting. D. Passios noted the Commission has not met the new hire.  
D. Passios saw that at the meeting a member asked if the Parks Commission was on board with the appointment and the Town 
Manager stated the Parks Chair has been involved in the process and she assumed the Park Commission was on board. He feels as 
a commission we have had zero involvement in the process and that it was a blatant over statement last night. 
D. Passios stated he will not be running for re-elction in May. A. Lockwood thanked D. Passios for his years of service. 
 Adjourned: 9:04 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary 