===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission December 18, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 51
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Tim Lawless, Member  
December 18, 2024
Ritter Lower Conference Room
MINUTES
Members present: Anita Scheipers, Karin Menard, Colleen Shapiro, and Christopher Sullivan
Absent: Tim Lawless
Additional Attendees: Angela Clement, Chris Ruth
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director Updates
C. Ruth reviewed the Park revolving fund account. The majority of the cost in and out are Recreation programs 
some were used for maintenance at Veteran’s Park.
C. Ruth noted there is still money in the regular operating budget the remainder will be moved to the revolving 
account at the end of the year. A. Scheipers noted the Finance manager would like C. Ruth to submit a budget 
that reﬂects what will be requested moving forward, the amount is not to exceed $77,000.
C. Ruth noted the account for the purchase of service is the day-to-day operating fund mostly spent on 
landscaping. There is some money left for repairs.
Facilities updates: 
• All fall cleanups are complete.
Next item on the agenda, Recreation Director Updates
A. Clement said she is worried about stafﬁng because she does not believe Liz Simione will be returning as the 
Beach Director.

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission December 18, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 52
A. Clement is going to have to follow a paper trail to ﬁgure out how L. Simeone ran the beach.
A. Clement indicated she got a deﬁnite from only 2 of last years lifeguards.
A. Clement is hoping to have two Water Safety Instructors (WSI). WSIs are needed to run the swim lessons.
Saturday lessons are not as popular, A. Clement thinks they are harder to staff. On the busy days, there should 
be at least 4 staff in the morning and possibly reduce in the afternoon.
A. Clement is looking into stafﬁng for swim lessons as well as lifeguards.
C. Ruth feels it would be a good time to put together policies and procedures for the Beach with a new Beach 
Director coming on.
A. Clement indicated pickleball and volleyball are very popular. Snapology is being offered frequently.
A. Clement stated she has opened some school vacation programs, MA Sports multisports, and STEM 
programs.
A. Scheipers asked about the best way to perform a beach stafﬁng analysis. A. Clement feels looking at the 
numbers is the best way.
K. Menard stated looking at the numbers and times the beach is open and the range of popular times would be 
helpful.
A. Clement will reach out to MyRec and get the pass check-ins and log-ins. A. Clement stated she has the sign-
in sheets from the past two years.
Next item on the agenda, Vendor Fair
A. Clement stated they are still in the beginning stage of planning. A. Clement indicated she is still trying to 
ﬁgure out what the insurance covers as she is planning a bouncy house and a dunk tank. She noted volunteers 
will be needed, she is just not sure about the screening process.
A. Clement stated she does not have an exact costs but the bounce house and dunk tank are approximately $700.
A. Clement will go before the Select Board to ask about shutting down Memorial Drive.
A. Scheipers asked what the date was for the event. A. Clement stated May 10, 2025.
C. Sullivan indicated the 300th Anniversary Committee asked if they could get a donated table.
Next item on the agenda, Earth Day
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission December 18, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 53
C. Shapiro stated last year they partnered with the Conservation Commission to organize some of the Earth Day 
clean-ups. C. Shapiro will reach out and get information for this year’s event.
C. Ruth stated Unitil would be giving the town trees, he would reach out to the DPW and see if they would be 
available for Earth Day.
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park User Fees 
C. Sullivan stated he wouldn’t recommend any changes this year since they were close to their season starting. 
K. Menard suggested a small increase in the fees as they haven’t been raised in a few years.
A. Scheipers asked what the registration fees currently were. TJ Laughlin from Lunenburg Baseball stated that 
t-ball registration is $50 per kid, with nearly half of what is collected going to the town. K. Menard asked out of 
the 168 registrations how many were t-ball. TJ stated 36. K. Menard noted that only those players using ﬁelds 
under the Park Commission needed to pay the per player fee.
A. Scheipers suggested comparing similar communities.
C. Shapiro asked what the fees were for the older divisions. Anita stated the rookies and minors are $150 per 
year and majors are $170. Softball is $90 for minors, $150 for majors, and $170 for seniors. K. Menard stated 
U4, four to six is $90 in town, grades 1&2 are $100, travel grades 3 and up is $155 with a $25 discount for early 
bird registration.
The Commission discussed the idea of having a workshop in February to discuss the fees issue.
TJ asked what the ultimate goal is in raising the fees. C. Ruth indicated he must maintain the ﬁelds until he is 
advised that there are no longer funds available.
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Updates
A. Scheipers  indicated C. Ruth has been named by the Interim Town Manager as the project leader/project 
manager for the Marshall Park Project. C. Ruth is the key contact in dealing with the design team and the OPM.
ARPA Funds: A. Scheipers stated the Select Board approved the Commission to keep $225,000 of ARPA funds 
to ﬁnish the 60% design of phases 1, 2, and 3 of the park.
Little Free Library: 
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission December 18, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 54
H. Munkacsy is requesting a Little Free Library be installed at Wallace Park. K. Menard stated there has already 
been an approved request for a Little Free Library at that location that was never installed and thought it was a 
great idea.
H. Munkacsy stated she would build and install it at no cost to the town.
C. Ruth suggested attaching it to the Snack Shack.
K. Menard made a motion to allow Heather Munkacsy to install a Little Free Library at Wallace Park and work 
with C. Ruth on the installation. C. Sullivan seconded. The Chair called for a vote. All in favor, motion carried 
(4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Grant Updates
K. Menard indicated the $50,000 was appropriated for the grant writing services to be contracted out and did 
fall not under the control of the Select Board.  D. Passios stated line item was put into general government, 
which is under the control of the Town Manager, not the Select Board.
A. Scheipers indicated the grants that were applied for and received, the grant administrators strongly 
encouraged the Commission to re-apply. A. Scheipers noted the past grants would be given to the OPM grant 
assistant for assistance with the new grant cycle.
D. Passios passed along some information regarding grant assistance and applying for any other appropriate 
grants.
K. Menard made a motion for the Commission to formally request the Town Manager to get the necessary 
professional assistance to reapply for the Parc, Land and Water Conservation Fund, the ADA grants, and any 
other appropriate grants that would assist in reducing the cost of the Marshall Park Project. A. Scheipers 
seconded. The Chair called for a vote. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
Next item on the agenda,  Invoices to be approved
None
Next item on the agenda, Master Planning Committee assignment
K. Menard stated she has resigned from the Committee.
A. Scheipers stated the Commission does not have anyone at this time who is able to be a representative from 
the Parks. The Parks Commission will let them know once the ﬁnd someone. 
===PAGE 5===
Lunenburg Park Commission December 18, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 55
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates 
A. Scheipers reviewed the ranked Capital Projects list including the Mashall Park Design and Marshall Pond 
weed treatment. A. Scheipers will report back to the Commission after meeting with the Interim Town Manager.
Next item on the agenda, Commission Updates 
C. Sullivan noted the 300th Anniversary Committee will be reconvening in the Spring.
C. Sullivan informed the 300th Anniversary Committee nothing will be happening at Northﬁeld in 2028.
K. Menard stated the Polar Plunge was completed and a thank you note had been received from the Boys and 
Girls Club.
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve the minutes of October 23, 2024, with edits. K. Menard seconded, The 
chair took a vote. All in favor (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Next Meeting on January 15, 2025, February 5, 2025, for the workshop meeting, and 
February 19, 2025.
Adjourned: 8:48 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary