===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Minutes August 14, 2024 page  of 21
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tim Lawless, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
August 14, 2024 
MINUTES 
Members present: Anita Scheipers, Karin Menard, Tom Lawless, and Christopher Sullivan 
Absent: Colleen Shapiro 
Additional Attendees: Chris Ruth 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Discussion and vote on resident to have a tree planted at his expense at McNally. 
A. Scheipers stated a resident, Dan Lincoln asked that he be allowed to work with Lakeview Landscaping at 
his expense next to the sign at McNally. A. Scheipers asked what type of tree. Lakeview Landscaping told her 
a Kousa dogwood with a 15-20’ tall mature height and 12-20’ wide mature width. 
C. Ruth expressed concerns to make sure of its exact location to ensure it is not impeding the view/roadway. 
K. Menard made a motion to allow Dan Lincoln to plant a tree at McNally Field with the final location approved 
by C. Ruth. C. Sullivan seconded. (4-0). 
Roll call vote: 
A.Scheipers - yes 
K.Menard - yes 
C. Sullivan - yes 
T. Woodward - yes 
Next item on the agenda, Beach House signage discussion and approval 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Minutes August 14, 2024 page  of 22
K. Menard indicated Dillis & Roy offered to pay for the new sign. 
K. Menard showed the examples sent in by Turning Leaf Design and Add-a Sign. 
A. Scheipers asked about the material of the sign. K. Menard stated the Add-a-Sign is completely aluminum. 
K. Menard will go back to Add-a-Sign and have them redesign the sign. K. Menard stated she will reach out to 
Dillis & Roy to inform them Parks Commission will be accepting their offer. 
Next item on the agenda, Scoring of the proposals from design firms for Marshall Park 
A. Scheipers indicated three proposals were received from the landscape design firms. 
The firms are Nesra Engineering, Fuss and O’Neill and RDLA. 
The Commission discussed the submissions and rated the applicants. 
A. Scheipers took the scores from the members and tallied.  
The rankings are Fuss & O’Neill 90, Nesra 91, and RDLA 83. The Commission agreed to interview all three 
applicants. 
A. Scheipers indicated the interviews will be 6:30 pm on August 21, 2024. 
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates 
None 
Next item on the agenda, Committee Updates 
K. Menard stated Master Planning is not anticipating to meet until October. 
T. Lawless stated he has not been sworn into the Open Space Committee but will do next week. 
Board comment: None 
Public comment: 
D. Passios suggested the Commission submit contracted services grants to the Town Manager. 
Adjourned: 7:46 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary