===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg - Park Commission
Anita Scheipers, Chair
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair
Karin Menard, Clerk
Chris Sullivan, Member
Timothy Lawless, Member
960 Massachusetts Ave
508.439.7958
Lunenburg, MA 01462
AGENDA  - AMENDED
Wednesday – August 14 , 2024 – 7:00 pm
Ritter Building, Lower Conference Room - 960 Massachusetts Ave, Lunenburg, MA
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
it will be broadcasted over Lunenburg Public Access channel and uploaded to the LunenburgAccess  YouTube channel.
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend 
this in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a 
courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this 
agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: 
To Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/82348207840?pwd=bCpAbmYq4EYmRvtBhXwOF6FyRpFw4T.1  , or from a telephone, dial the
toll-free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Meeting ID:   823 4820 7840 ,  Passcode : 128061
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant ID is 
needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer 
and app users may use the “raise hand ” feature to request to speak.  
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting , and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. 
Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not 
listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
1. Open meeting
2. Discussion and vote on resident request to have tree planted at his expense at McNally
3. Scoring of the proposals from design firms for Marshall Park
4. Beach House signage discussion and approval
5. Chair Updates
6. Committee Updates (Open Space & Master Plan Steering)
7. Upcoming Meeting D ates:
8. Other Business: Other business matters that may legally come before the board not known at the time of posting; 
Correspondence, Announcements and Public and Board Comment 
9. Adjourn