===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission April 24, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Ana Lockwood, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
April 24, 2024
MINUTES
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Colleen Shapiro, Christopher Sullivan, and Anita Scheipers
Additional Attendees: Angela Clement and Chris Ruth
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update
C. Ruth gave the following updates:
• Landscapers started cleaning up the ﬁelds.
• Some people asked about adding gravel to the ﬁelds that had gotten ﬂooded.
• A picnic bench got destroyed at McNally.
• The baseball program got volunteers to repair the Snack Shack of the softball ﬁeld.
• The water is on at Marshall Park, but the irrigation is not.
A. Clement gave the following program updates:
• May will start with Books with Bunnies.
• Youth resin art program.
• June STEM event.
• After the Fourth of July, basketball will be running.
• Snapology and Best Soccer are returning for summer camps this year.
• Nashua River Water Association, pending.
• End of summer will have Multi-Sports camps.
• Town Beach memberships posted.

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission April 24, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 42
• Lifeguard applications have been coming in. 
Next item on the agenda, Repurpose T-ball ﬁeld as Dog Park
TJ Loughlin , Vice-President of the Lunenburg Youth Baseball and Softball League stated the area is fenced in and they 
are not using it. TJ suggested that the area become a dog park.
K. Menard asked if there is anything they are required to do if it is used as a dog park. 
A. Scheipers noted Insurance.
A. Lockwood stated the signage stating no dogs allowed would need to be removed.
A. Lockwood stated she would put this on a future agenda and discuss the insurance issue with the Town Manager.
Next item on the agenda, Request to place storage container by Powell Field
TJ Loughlin said that Lunenburg Youth Baseball would like to place a storage container at Marshall Park for equipment 
storage. He stated the initial thought was to place the container in the woods in the back but the location is difﬁcult for the 
delivery company so their fall back location would be alongside the pitching practice box near Powell Field which is an 
equal distance from both ﬁelds.
K. Menard asks the size of the container. TJ stated 8x20 and said the cost would be covered by the league.
K. Menard made a motion to allow the Lunenburg Youth Baseball and Softball League to place the storage container at 
the ﬁeld. C. Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0).
NOTE: C. Ruth noted the address of Marshall Park is now 855 Mass Ave., this change may take up to 6 months to get 
updated in Google Maps.
Next item on the agenda, Town Beach House Work: Update
C. Ruth stated originally ½” plywood was planned to be used but may use ¾” and ½”. A. Lockwood asked the next steps. 
C. Ruth indicated he would get the rest of the stock and install the plywood. C. Ruth indicated he would use volunteers for 
the vinyl ﬂooring.
A. Lockwood asked about the timeline. C. Ruth stated he will be starting April 29th. 
Next item on the agenda, Disposition of Park Equipment 
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission April 24, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 43
A. Lockwood stated she has reached out to the Town Manager. The Town Manager indicated she is drafting a policy for 
disposing of surplus property. The policy will offer the surplus to other departments ﬁrst, then MuniBid and ﬁnally recycle 
or dispose of.
Next item on the agenda,  Earth Day Celebrations: Update
C. Shapiro stated all the events were well attended. There were 8-10 events. C. Sullivan indicated they collected 124 
pounds of trash. C. Shapiro stated the Boy and Girl Scouts event was postponed due to rain.
Next item on the agenda, NHS Project: Update
C. Sullivan indicated he has 1 student for a project.
Next item on the agenda, Update on Lake Shirley Parcels & Agreement with Shady Point
A. Lockwood indicated she has reached out but have no update.
Next item on the agenda, Commission Reorganization
A.Lockwood indicated she would like to pass off the position of chair. 
A. Lockwood recommended A. Scheipers for the position of Chair.
C. Sullivan made a motion to appoint A. Scheipers as Chair. K. Menard seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0).
A. Lockwood made a motion to appoint C. Shapiro as Vice-chair. A. Scheipers seconded. All in favor, motion carried 
(5-0).
 A. Scheipers made a motion to appoint K. Menard as Clerk. C. Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0).
Next item on the agenda, Committee Updates (Open Space & Master Plan Steering)
A. Lockwood stated there are no updates. K. Menard indicated the Master Plan Steering is reviewing the next survey in 
hopes of having it ready for Town Meeting.
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates
A. Lockwood stated the Revenue Turnover Policy is being reviewed.
Next item on the agenda, Approval of minutes 
Tabled
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission April 24, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 44
Upcoming Meeting Dates: May 15, 2024
 Adjourned: 8:08 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary