===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Minutes July 31, 2024 page  of 51
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Tim Lawless, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
July 31, 2024 
Minutes 
Members present: Anita Scheipers, Karin Menard, Colleen Shapiro, Tom Lawless, and Christopher Sullivan 
Absent: none 
Additional Attendees: Angela Clement, Katie White, and Dave Passios 
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.”  
First item on the agenda, Recreation Director Update 
A. Clement gave the following updates: 
• The Best Soccer Program finished last week. 
• The Multi-sports Program will take place next week and the week after. 
• Swim lessons are almost over. 
• Working on programs for the Fall. Another resin class for the youth, an art program for adults, 
pickelball, hopefully volleyball again. 
A. Scheipers asked when the swim lessons were over. A. Clement stated Friday. 
K. Menard asked if the Beach could be open for Labor Day. A. Clement indicated she is waiting  to hear from L. 
Simeone how long the staff will be staying on. 
C. Sullivan asked about the 5k. A. Clement stated she is working on that. 

===PAGE 2===
Park Commission Minutes July 31, 2024 page  of 52
Next item on the agenda, Boys and Girls Club – Polar Plunge Nov 2024 
C. Sullivan indicated he reached out to the Boys and Girls Club and brought it before the Commission for the 
Polar Plunge to be held at the Town Beach as a fundraiser. K. White stated she is working on the kids getting 
sponsored. K. White indicated the date would be November 30, 2024. 
A. Scheipers asked how this would be advertised. K. White stated this would be advertised through Social 
Media their website and any support system the Parks Commission would have. 
K. Menard asked if lifeguards were needed for the event. K. White will look into that. K. Menard suggested 
speaking with the Fire Chief and having them present for the event. 
A. Scheipers asked if a waiver was needed for the participants. K. White stated yes. 
C. Shapiro stated the Student Council had done an event like this in Town before. K. White will reach out to the 
school. 
C. Sullivan asked K. White to follow up with the Commission in September. 
Next item on the agenda, Consider Capital Planning requests 
A. Scheipers asked if there were projects discussed in previous meetings. C. Sullivan indicated 961 Northfield 
Road was mentioned. A. Scheipers asked about the size of the property.  
C. Sullivan stated between 30 - 50 acres. K. Menard stated the parcel is 55.7 acres. 
A. Scheipers asked what is existing on the Capital Planning Request. K. Menard stated McNally Park, $50,000 
for up to a schematic design. Whalom Lake and Marshall Pond treatment, $30,000. 
A. Scheipers noted the grant for the Whalom Lake and Marshall Pond treatment was not approve and we are 
welcome to apply again. 
A. Scheipers expressed the importance of the removal of weeds and keep the waters clear. 
C. Sullivan suggested the fields at Fitzgerald be added. C. Shapiro asked how the numbers are with the Little 
League. A. Clement will get the registration numbers and fees collected. 
T. Lawless suggested a correction to the slope at the beach. A. Clement noted they have been using the flat 
side of the beach for beach yoga. 
K. Menard suggested replacing the playground surface with a rubberized surface at Wallace Park. 
K. Menard indicated the Veteran’s Park needs clean-up. 
===PAGE 3===
Park Commission Minutes July 31, 2024 page  of 53
A. Scheipers suggested a discussion on putting a sidewalk from Lake Avenue to the Beach House. 
A. Scheipers suggested having C.Ruth move forward with the existing list and have further discussion. 
Next item on the agenda, Update on Increase Hours for Recreation Director 
A. Scheipers stated there was a request submitted to the Select Board and the Finance Committee to consider 
increasing the number of hours for the position from 19 to 28 hours. 
The Select Board approved the request at their last meeting but was not approved by the Finance Committee. 
The approval of the increase requires the approval from both. 
K. Menard suggested going to Special Town Meeting to change the type of revolving account to a 53e ½. 
Next item on the agenda, Status of the Skate Park 
A. Scheipers stated the license agreement is in place between the Parks Commission and the Skate Park 
group which allows then entry to the property for construction. 
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park project updates, including designer selection process and meeting 
dates 
A. Scheipers indicated she and K. Menard have been working with the Town Manger and the OPM to move 
forward and advertise and procure the services for the landscape design firm. 
A. Scheipers stated the RFQ is out and proposals are due August 8, 2024. 
A. Scheipers explained the designer selection process and asked the members to keep the week of the 14th 
open to review the proposals. 
Next item on the agenda, Consider Baseball and Softball use of Marshall Park in 2025 
  
A. Scheipers indicated during phase 1 of construction the fields will be unable to be used. 
K.Menard asked if the fields could be used for practice. K. Menard suggested the Chestnut Street 90-foot 
diamond. 
A. Scheipers will draft letters to the groups and let them know the Commission’s concerns and why the fields 
will have no formal use. 
A. Scheipers stated the next step is getting a designer and start design work in September with the design 
being completed the December. Hoping to have a contractor on in early 2025 
===PAGE 4===
Park Commission Minutes July 31, 2024 page  of 54
Next item on the agenda, Grant Updates 
A. Scheipers indicated the Land and Water Grant requires an Army Corps of Engineers permit for the wetlands 
part of the work before funding is provided. A. Scheipers stated the OPM is working with the state and the 
engineers. 
A. Scheipers stated the Accessibly Grant will help put more accessible playground equipment on the phase 1 
portion of the park. 
C. Sullivan indicated that T-Mobile has a Hometown Grant for towns with less than 50,000 employees, 
awarded quarterly. They award up to $50,000 to build, rebuild, and refresh community spaces. 
Next item on the agenda, Special Town Meeting Warrant Articles 
A. Scheipers stated the article to be submitted are the following: 
• Change the type of revolving account from a 53d to a 53e ½  
• Increase the hours for the Recreation Director. 
• Additional funding for the completion of Marshall Park with the amount to be determined. 
K. Menard made a motion to draft the Warrant Articles for the 3 items. C. Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion 
carried (5-0). 
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates 
A. Scheipers indicated her updates were the cave being secured and Marshall Park. 
Next item on the agenda, Committee Updates 
K. Menard stated Master Planning has not met recently. 
Next item on the agenda, Assign a New Parks Commission Representative to the Open Space Committee. 
T. Lawless volunteered to be a representative. 
K. Menard made a motion to appoint T. Lawless as the representative to the Open Space Committee. C. 
Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0). 
===PAGE 5===
Park Commission Minutes July 31, 2024 page  of 55
Next item on the agenda, Approval of minutes  
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve June 25, 2024. C. Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion carried (5-0). 
Next item on the agenda, Upcoming Meeting Dates 
August 14 and 21, 2024. 
Board comment: 
C. Sullivan noted the Cardboard Boat Race is on August 17, 2024, at 5 pm. 
Public comment: 
D. Passios asked when Parkland Grants can be applied for again. K. Menard stated there is nothing stated that 
you can’t apply again in the next round. 
D. Passios noted the announcement regarding shutting off the baseball fields for the construction of phase 
one, will that include the skate park shutting down? A. Scheipers stated unfortunately yes. 
D. Passios expressed concerns with the parking in the Mass. Ave side of Marshall Park. 
D. Passios reminded the Commission when revisiting the McNally Field project to look at the Water District’s 
properties.D. Passios noted the McNally property is 2.4 acres. 
C. Sullivan asked if there was a resolution on the Lake Shirley property. A. Scheipers stated no. 
Adjourned: 9:12 pm 
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary