===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission May 15, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 31
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Ana Lockwood, Member 
Chris Sullivan, Member 
May 15, 2024
MINUTES
Members present: Karin Menard, Colleen Shapiro, and Anita Scheipers
Absent: Ana Lockwood and Christopher Sullivan
Additional Attendees: Angela Clement and Chris Ruth
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update
C. Ruth gave the following updates:
• Walker the ﬁelds with the bidders for the new landscaper contract.
• Veteran’s Park is getting ready for Memorial Day, new ﬂags on the big polls.
• Angela has the small ﬂags.
• The storage container is in at Powell Field. 
K. Menard commented that if there were no ceremony to please still put up the ﬂags. C. Ruth agreed.
Next item on the agenda, Town Beach House Work: Update
C. Ruth indicated the material for the sub-ﬂoor is ready to ship and the price is less than expected.
C. Ruth asked what color the ﬂoor would be. K. Menard suggested a sand color. C. Ruth will get some samples.
K. Menard asked about the timing for the vinyl. C. Ruth stated he was unsure.
K. Menard asked if the vinyl is click or adhesive. C. Ruth stated click.
A. Scheipers asked what day the beach was opening. A. Clement stated the employees start June 17th and the beach opens 
June 24th.

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission May 15, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 32
A. Clement gave the following program updates:
• The resin art class K-5th grade is full.
• Beach Yoga has been advertised.
• Some old picnic tables at the beach should be removed.
• No summer programs until after July 4, 2024.
• Beach passes are available.
• 2 sessions of swim lessons are scheduled possibly a third.
• Jarod Bowser is returning for work.
A. Clement ran through program registration numbers and upcoming programs.
C. Shapiro asked about the number of chair rentals for TCP and indicated she may have some to donate and will check to 
see how many are available.
Next item on the agenda, Repurpose T-ball ﬁeld as Dog Park
A. Scheipers stated she will check with the Town Manager about the insurance. D. Passios of 56 Whiting St. stated he 
asked the Board of Health who had jurisdiction over the Dog Pard and they indicated it was Animal Control.
Next item on the agenda, Status of Skate Park
A. Scheipers indicated an agreement was reached with the insurance. Town Council is revising the license agreement. 
Town Council suggested adding the Skate Park to the insurance. A. Scheipers stated everything should be in place by the 
end of the month.
Next item on the agenda, Grant Updates
K. Menard discussed upcoming and previous applied for grants.
1. Park Grant was awarded $500,000 and begins July 1, 2024.
2. Land & Water Conservation Fund Grant, $1,000,000 needs approval for a wetlands permit from the Army Corps 
of Engineers before the grant is awarded.
3. Trails Grant has been applied for but have not heard anything yet.
4. ADA Grant needs to be for a speciﬁc project in Marshall Park. The playground makes the most sense.
K. Menard notes the playground was originally $106,000 and believes the original quote was for mulch ground cover. She 
said the second quote in January 2024 the estimate received was $243,000 and believes some of the increase was because 
that quote was for a poured rubber surface. The price differences in the quotes for surfacing material is $128,000. 
Equipment prices had also increased.  K.Menard suggested asking for the difference between the original and  the most 
recent, which is $136,820.
A. Scheipers stated if they could get 2 sets of equipment and the surface then ask for $136,800.
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission May 15, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 33
K. Menard stated the ADA Grant need to be submitted before June 15, 2024.
K. Menard made a motion to submit the ADA Grant in the amount of $136,820. C. Shapiro seconded. All in favor, motion 
carried (3-0).
Next item on the agenda, Dredging Grant
A. Scheipers stated the grant will be for dredging at Marsh Park and the beach in the amount of $96,000 she has not heard 
anything since submission of the grant.
Next item on the agenda, OPM Updates
A. Scheipers indicated there is an agreement with Skanska not to exceed $260,000 the ﬁrst year. C. Ruth will be the Clerk 
of the Works. Their start date is to be determined.
Next item on the agenda, Update on Lake Shirley Parcels & Agreement with Shady Point
A. Scheipers indicated the chair of the Select Board stated they were in the process of reviewing the document.
Next item on the agenda, Committee Updates (Open Space & Master Plan Steering)
K. Menard stated they are ﬁne tuning a survey that will be going out. Once complete she will forward to A. Clement for 
distribution and she quill post it as well.
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates - none
Next item on the agenda, Approval of minutes 
K. Menard made a motion to approve January 17 and March 20, 2024 pending the corrections. C. Shapiro seconded. All in 
favor, motion carried (3-0).
Upcoming Meeting Dates: June 25, 2024
Public comment:
D. Passios of 56 Whiting St. stated after speaking with C. Ruth it was determined that unless construction is expanded at 
Marshall Park, the cave will not be disrupted.
 Adjourned: 7:55 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary