===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission Minutes March 20, 2024 page  of 14
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Ana Lockwood, Chair       978.582.4146 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair         960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Anita Scheipers, Member 
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
March 20, 2024
MINUTES
Members present: Ana Lockwood, Karin Menard, Christopher Sullivan, Colleen Shapiro
and Anita Scheipers
Additional Attendees: Angela Clement and Chris Ruth
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Lockwood read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director & Recreation Director Update
C. Ruth gave the following updates:
• Wallace Park had some overﬂowing trash and some damage to the Merry-a-go-round and the Snack 
Shack
• Trash has been cleaned up,  Merry-a-go-round is partially ﬁxed, and waiting for the light to be mounted.
• RFP for landscaping sent to the Procurement Ofﬁcer.
• Working on getting the ﬁelds ready for the baseball program. 
A. Clement gave the following updates:
• Tuesday & Wednesday Pickleball is still running.
• Thursday just intermediate volleyball running March & April.
• April vacation has Multi-Sports camp and Snapology, currently, the numbers are low.
• Summer has a lot of youth programs scheduled.
• The Painted Goat will be offering resin work for kids.

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission Minutes March 20, 2024 page  of 24
• Upcoming family programs will include Good Picking Farms, Books and Bunnies and Science Heros 
A. Clement is trying to ﬁnalize some programs for resin, clay and Beach Yoga.
Summer programs that are coming back are Basketball, Snapology, Best Soccer, and MA Sports.
Beach season memberships are up on My Rec.
A. Clement stated Liz Simeone and 4 Lifeguards will be coming back but the lifeguards are not as available as 
last year. 
K. Menard asked about the current usage at Marshall Park. C. Ruth stated only the High School baseball team is 
informally practicing.
K. Menard indicated Softball is using the park also.
Next item on the agenda, Town Beach House Work: Update
K. Menard stated she will be putting together a crew of volunteers to remove carpeting and sub-ﬂoor on April 6, 
2024.
Next item on the agenda,  Earth Day Celebrations: Update
C. Shapiro has been speaking with Mary Wilson who has been in touch with the Police Chief to discuss clean-
up spots. C. Shapiro indicated A. Schiepers offered to have a group do Chestnut Street and the Town center. C. 
Shapiro stated another group will be responsible for Whalom Lakefront and Prospect Street. The Boys and Girls 
Club staff will be at Wallis Park.
A. Lockwood asked if anyone would be at Veteran’s Park. C. Shapiro indicated the Boys and Girls Club 
members will do a weekday clean-up at Veteran’s Park and the library
C. Shapiro indicated the two dates will be April 13 & 20, 2024.
Next item on the agenda, NHS Project: Update
C. Sullivan stated he has not heard back from the student. He will reach out again.
Next item on the agenda, Discussion and potential vote on the closure of Park’s properties for reserved and 
rental use speciﬁcally on the ﬁrst Saturday of May.
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission Minutes March 20, 2024 page  of 34
K. Menard indicated the day of the Special Town Meeting, the ﬁrst Saturday in May the school policy is that the 
ﬁelds are not open for rental by any organization. Parks do not have the same policy.
The members gave their input. No vote taken.
Next item on the agenda, OPM Interview Format Discussion: Zoom vs. person, location, rating, and selection.
A. Lockwood suggested the presentations be presented via Zoom and the Commission should use a ranked 
rating. A. Scheipers would like the meetings to be in person.
K. Menard will reach out to the Senior Center for use as a venue for presentations.
A. Lockwood asked the members what they would like to see for the presentations. 
A. Schiepers would like to see a better description of the types of projects and how they handled them. C. 
Sullivan agrees they should be park-focused.
A. Lockwood asked for a suggested time limit. A. Schiepers suggested 30 minutes for the presentation with 
Q&S and 15 minutes between each presentation. A. Schiepers suggested a breakdown as; 15 minutes for formal 
presentation and 15 minutes for follow-up Q&A.
Next item on the agenda Review & Deliberate OPM Proposals
A. Lockwood suggested the Commission decide that night whether or not they want to make a decision.
Next item on the agenda, Finalize OPM Interviewee List
The Commission totaled their combined aggregate lists.
The contractors the Commission chose to interview are:
NV5
Altantic Construction 
Skanska
Next item on the agenda, Update on Lake Shirley Parcels & Agreement with Shady Point
A. Lockwood stated she has not heard any feedback from Michael Ray Jeffreys.
Next item on the agenda, Committee Updates
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission Minutes March 20, 2024 page  of 44
A. Lockwood updated the commission that Open Space Committee was not interested in the 4 lots that are 
coming out of Chapter.
A. Lockwood stated the Open Space Committee will be working on the Open Space Plan.
K. Menard stated the Master Plan Steering would have a meeting on April 5, 2024 at 6 pm.
A. Lockwood stated the Boys and Girls Club asked if Parks would like to have a team again on “Are You 
Smarter than a 5th Grader” which will be held April 26th. The Commission will be unable to participate this 
year.
C. Sullivan noted the Boys and Girls Club will be hosting a Cornhole Tournament April 4th.
Next item on the agenda, Approval of minutes January 17, 2024.
Tabled
Last item on the agenda: Next meeting, March 27, at 7 pm, potentially April 3, and regular meeting on April 17, 
2024.
Comments:
C. Shapiro indicated ads would be run in the Ledger for Earth Day, the Conservation Commission will split the 
cost with Parks.
 Adjourned: 8:35  pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary