===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission November 6, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Tim Lawless, Member  
November 6, 2024 
Upper Ritter Conference Room
MINUTES
Members present: Anita Scheipers, Karin Menard, Colleen Shapiro, and Christopher Sullivan
Absent: Tim Lawless
Additional Attendees: Carter Terenzini
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director Updates
A. Scheipers had an updated provided by C. Ruth: he is working on the bulk of the parks fall clean-ups and 
some inﬁeld maintenance to keep the stone dust weed-free. There is a landscaper doing a clean-up of Veteran’s 
Park before the holiday weekend. He also stated the Board of Health asked for an update regarding the money 
they have available for the septic system at Marshall Park.
Next item on the agenda, Recreation Director Updates
K. Menard indicated she spoke with A. Clement and was informed an email was sent out with a sign-up link for 
those who can help on Tuesday and Thursday nights to close up TCP after pickle ball. A. Lockwood offered to 
close on those nights but it would be nice to have back-up. And that Angela had spoken to Joeci Gilchrest about 
the Spring Vendor fair and they are planning on May 10, 2025.
K. Menard made a motion to have A. Clement proceed with the planning of the All Vendor Fair May 10, 2025. 
C. Sullivan seconded. The chair took a vote. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Updates

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission November 6, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 42
A. Scheipers stated at the last meeting the Commission discussed the increase in the cost estimates provided, 
which is 4 million over what was originally anticipated.
A. Scheipers stated the Commission voted not to move ahead with the Special Town Meeting article. The 
Commission will go back to Town Meeting in the spring.
The Commission received a revised design which reconﬁgured the phasing known now as phase 1A to include 
all the Parc Grant items: the pavilion, playground, pickle ball, and basketball courts. Phase 1B includes parking 
and utilities, etc. 
Phase 2A includes the softball and baseball ﬁelds and parking off of Chestnut. Phase 2B includes the pavilion/
concession/bathroom facilities next to the playground and the smaller bathroom to the left of the softball ﬁeld.
Phase 3A includes all remaining work, the boardwalk areas, the pavilion at Marshall Pond, and the dog park.
A. Scheipers indicated that the cost to get to a 60% permitting design level which includes and updated cost 
estimates 1A, 1B, 2A, and 2B would be $250,000-$300,000. The remaining $700,000-$750,000 in ARPA funds 
would be returned to the Town.
C. Terenzini stated the two ﬁrms need to get their bills in ASAP and have another meeting next Tuesday 
morning with the chair of Parks to work through some of these concerns.
C. Terenzini expressed concerns that there is mention of a test pit but not cost for the observation of those and 
no public meetings in the quotes for work.
C. Terenzini stated that he did not think the Commission had the support needed with prior administration and 
has assigned Chris Ruth as the in-house project manager.
K. Menard thanked C. Terenzini for acknowledging the lack of support internally and thanked him for stepping 
up to help and being involved in the meetings.
C. Sullivan stated he is in favor of moving the project forward with the revised phases and bringing the project 
to the Town Meeting in May 2025.
C. Sullivan made a motion to move forward with the updated plan with a new request at the Town Meeting in 
May 2025. K. Menared seconded. The chair took a vote. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
Public Comment: Greg LaFreniere, 15 Park Street Terrace asked about the maintenance plan. 
A. Scheipers stated there is no plan in place, the design has to be ﬁnished ﬁrst.
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission November 6, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 43
TJ Laughlin, 207 Rolling Acres Road expressed concern about the cost to maintain the ﬁelds in the future.
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Invoices for Payment
A. Scheipers presented an invoice for approval.
K. Menard made a motion to approve the RDLA October 31, 2024, invoice #2455-02 for $24,200. C. Shapiro 
seconded. The chair took a vote. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Boys and Girls Club Polar Plunge 
K. Menard stated she reviewed the Liability Release with C. Terenzini and he approved it and
K. Menard forwarded a copy to the Boys and Girls Club. They are scheduled for Saturday, November 30, 2024, 
from noon to 2 pm.
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park User Fees
K. Menard reviewed the contract from C. Ruth.
K. Menard indicated the baseball/softball program is $20/head for residents and $30/head for non-residents. The 
adult league is $25/head for residents and $35 for non-residents.
Youth baseball paid $3,360 for 168 players. The Phillies paid $700 with 20 out-of-town players.
The Commission will revisit this topic at the next meeting.
Public Comment:
Marianne Braithwaite, 204 Northﬁeld Rd asked if the middle and high school paid to use the baseball or softball 
ﬁelds. K. Menard stated there is a reciprocal agreement allowing them to use the baseball ﬁelds and Recreation 
to use their facilities. 
Brian DeFelice, 43 Brown Ave expressed concerns with money being turned back to the town given the number 
of things they would like to see done. K. Menard noted the money could not be reallocated by the commission 
and C. Shapiro that this was the nuances of the municipal process.
Next item on the agenda, Skate Park Update and Timing of Access
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission November 6, 2024 Meeting Minutes Page  of 44
A. Scheipers stated the skate park group is looking to know when they can get in and start the project. A. 
Scheipers asked if their funding was in place and they stated yes.
K. Menard made a motion to allow the skate park to move ahead with construction, with no interruption to the 
use of all ﬁelds except for T-ball through October 1, 2025. C. Sullivan seconded. The chair took a vote. All in 
favor, motion carried (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates 
A. Scheipers stated the Town Manager sent a letter to the state to Melissa Cryon of the grants program to let 
them know they would not be moving ahead with the PARCs and then Land and Water Conservation Funds 
Grants. A. Scheipers notes they were encouraged to reapply.
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve the minutes of July 1, August 21, September 18, and October 10, 2024, 
with edits. K. Menard seconded, The chair took a vote. All in favor (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Next Meeting on December 18, 2024.
Adjourned: 8:33 pm