===PAGE 1===
Park Commission Meeting Minutes
Ritter Building, Upper Conference Room, 960 Massachusetts Ave.
Wednesday, June 4, 2025 - 7:00 p.m.
Members Present: Chair Anita Scheipers, Vice-Chair Colleen Shapiro, Clerk Karin Menard, 
Member Chris Sullivan, Member Marianne Mascari
Members Absent: None
Also Present: Facilities Director Chris Ruth, Recreation Director Angela Clement
OPEN MEETING
Chair Anita Scheipers called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM. Chair Anita Scheipers informed 
attendees that the meeting was being recorded and would be uploaded to YouTube after the 
meeting. She explained that the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may 
be addressed, and other items not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law.
REORGANIZATION OF THE COMMISSION FOR POSITIONS OF CHAIR, VICE-
CHAIR, AND CLERK
C. Shapiro moved to nominate Karin Menard as the Chair of the Park Commission effective 
immediately. Seconded by C. Sullivan. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion passed 
unanimously (5-0-0).
K. Menard moved to nominate Chris Sullivan as the Vice-Chair of the Park Commission 
effective immediately. Seconded by C. Sullivan. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (5-0-0).
K. Menard stated that the Park Commission does not need a Clerk because there is an incoming 
Recording Clerk to assist with its minutes. The Commission's consensus was not to move 
forward with nominating a Clerk.
A. Scheipers handed the meeting over to K. Menard.
FACILITIES DIRECTOR UPDATE
Page  of 17
Park Commission Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2025
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
Karin Menard, Chair
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair
Marianne Mascari, Member
Anita Scheipers, Member
Colleen Shapiro, Member
960 Mass Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
978.582.4146
Parks@LunenburgMA.gov

===PAGE 2===
Chris Ruth stated that a former resident purchased two benches for Veterans Park. C. Ruth stated 
that the benches that are currently installed were in memory of the former resident’s mother and 
one bench for his grandfather. C. Ruth stated that the resident has asked the Town to replace the 
wood on the benches and will pay for the repairs. C. Ruth stated that all six benches at the Park 
are deteriorating, and he estimates that the costs of repairing all the benches would be $1,500. C. 
Ruth stated that he recommends going with composite material instead of wood. C. Ruth 
presented the Commission with colors to choose from.
A. Scheipers asked if the donation by the former resident would have to be approved by the 
Select Board. C. Ruth agreed that it would need to be approved by the Select Board.
K. Menard stated that a high school senior volunteered recently to inventory all portions of 
Veterans Park. K. Menard stated that she will make sure to upload the ﬁles so that the 
Commission can view them in the future. The Commission informally decided on the Havana 
Gold color for the renovated benches at Veterans Park, which was presented to them by C. Ruth. 
C. Ruth stated that the Wallace Park merry-go-round was damaged by members of the public. C. 
Ruth stated that the condition of the merry-go-round was discussed on social media groups. He 
stated that he assessed the condition and did not ﬁnd any safety issues or sharp edges. C. Ruth 
said that one of the handles has been stolen, and one of the handles is at DPW and will be welded 
back together. C. Ruth stated that a resident said that an accessible swing was removed ﬁve years 
ago. C. Ruth stated that replacing the two rails and the swing is going to cost $3,050.72, and the 
price will increase by July 1, 2025. 
 
K. Menard stated that she believes the entire structure should be removed due to safety issues 
and continued maintenance. C. Ruth stated that removing the entire structure would cost 
signiﬁcantly more money than the proposed repairs, due to bringing in heavy equipment and 
demolition equipment to dismantle the concrete base. K. Menard suggested that an inexpensive 
security camera be installed to make sure that the equipment doesn’t get stolen or vandalized. C. 
Ruth stated that he would have to conﬁrm the legality of the request. 
K. Menard asked what the funding source would be for the proposed repairs. Mr. Ruth said it 
would have to come from the revolving fund and that there are funds available. 
A. Scheipers moved to allocate $3,050.72 for the proposed equipment to repair the swing and 
the merry-go-round at Wallace Park. Seconded by C. Shapiro. Call for the vote: Five-aye. 
The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).
C. Ruth stated that he thought a company that was identiﬁed to do the Wallace Park tennis court 
renovation was on the State contract list. He stated that the vendor is not correctly listed on the 
State list. C. Ruth stated that the work must now go out to bid for procurement for three weeks. 
C. Ruth stated that the work is not expected to be completed by September, unless another 
Page  of 27
Park Commission Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2025
===PAGE 3===
vendor has a lower bid. C. Ruth stated that the prior repair was not done correctly. K. Menard 
recommended routine inspections of the surface in the future. A. Clement stated that the courts 
could be restriped to allow for pickleball, but she recommends porta-potties by the court. A. 
Clement stated that programming could be run if the courts were used for pickleball. C. Ruth 
stated that if it were striped for pickleball, residents would have to bring their portable nets.
K. Menard suggested that C. Ruth and A. Clement work with the Library to have pickleball 
equipment and nets loaned out to residents. C. Ruth suggested that signage could be made to 
state the availability of loaning out pickleball equipment at the Library. K. Menard suggested that 
the Ledger could be notiﬁed once the repairs are made to advertise the improvements.
C. Sullivan asked if there could be any anticipated noise due to the proposed pickleball courts. C. 
Ruth didn’t foresee any issues and recommends that at least one basketball court be available for 
residents. C. Ruth proposed that both courts be striped for pickleball. C. Ruth recommends that if 
the Town organizes programming, one court would be available for non-programming use. A. 
Clement agreed with C. Ruth.
C. Ruth stated that the original contractor, who was planning to handle the weeds at the Town 
Beach, was not working out. C. Ruth stated that the new plan is to use diver-assisted suction 
harvesting from a pontoon boat. C. Ruth stated that he is working with a consultant to start the 
permitting process. C. Ruth stated that the consultant will be in the water tomorrow to determine 
what weeds are present and what types of weeds are there. C. Ruth stated that the plan is to have 
three and a half days of a contractor vacuuming weeds and then reassessing to see if there are 
enough funds in the capital account to move forward with more work. C. Ruth stated that 
portions of the Town Beach may not be open while the work is occurring. C. Ruth stated that the 
permits are valid for ﬁve years. 
RECREATION DIRECTOR UPDATE
A. Clement stated that the Town Beach will be open for swimming on June 23, 2025. She stated 
that there will be staff training from June 20th through June 22nd. A. Clement stated that Jared, the 
new Beach Director, has been part of the staff for several years. A. Clement stated that the 
lifeguarding staff is fully hired for the season. A. Clement stated that swimming lessons will 
occur one at a time due to only having one returning lifeguard who has done swimming lessons 
before. A. Clement stated that afternoon sessions are available, but have not received a lot of 
interest so far. A. Clement stated that swimming lessons will not begin until the week of June 
30th. A. Clement stated that she will ask the Town Manager to send out an email notiﬁcation to 
Town staff to advertise employee rates for beach use. K. Menard described the registration 
system, called My Rec, to M. Mascari. 
A. Clement stated that the ﬁrst week of summer programming is the week of June 23rd, and it’s 
almost fully enrolled for Snapology. K. Menard asked about there being a gap in programming 
Page  of 37
Park Commission Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2025
===PAGE 4===
between Snapology and Soccer camp from 12:00 – 12:30 p.m. A. Clement stated that she is 
willing to watch the children doing both activities and walk the campers over to the next program 
at 12:30 p.m. A. Clement stated that multi-sport programming is also available. 
A. Clement stated that due to the vacancy in the building, additional Fall programming can occur 
now that there is more space. K. Menard recommended to A. Clement that she apply for funding 
through the Lunenburg Cultural Council.
C. Sullivan thanked A. Clement for her efforts in organizing the Lunenburg Vendor Fair. 
MARSHALL PARK PROJECT: NEXT STEPS – REGARDING SEPTIC SYSTEM, 
STATUS OF DESIGN, FUTURE PRESENTATION OF FUNDING REQUESTS
A. Scheipers had a conversation with the Town Manager after the May Town Meeting in terms of 
continuing design work for Marshall Park. A. Scheipers stated that the Town Manager said that 
the Commission should spend down any remaining allocated funding to ﬁnalize design plans. A. 
Scheipers contacted Skanska and RDLA requesting an estimate of a full and small design for 
Marshall Park. 
Mr. Ruth stated that the current Board of Health may be willing to allow for sewer connections at 
Marshall Park. Mr. Ruth stated that it may free up additional funds; however, he said that for the 
full bathroom installation, it would require additional funding. Mr. Ruth stated that some of the 
currently allocated funds are ARPA funds and must be spent down. A. Scheipers stated that she 
determined that there is just under $100,000 left that was appropriated for Marshall Park. A. 
Scheipers stated that she had conversations with representatives from Skanska and RDLA, and 
they did not believe it would make sense to pursue adding a bathroom facility because it would 
cause a lot of redesigning that may need to be done. A. Scheipers stated that Skanska and RDLA 
estimated that a new updated plan could be done with the remaining appropriated funds and aim 
for the smaller project (Phase 1+).
A. Scheipers stated that the Town Manager encouraged the Commission to bring forward Phase 
1+ to the Fall Town Meeting. A. Scheipers described Phase 1+ as major improvements, including 
bringing utilities in from Massachusetts Avenue, creating a larger parking and driveway entrance, 
adding basketball and pickleball courts, adding an ADA accessible playground, and adding a 
pavilion/concession stand facility.
A. Scheipers, K. Menard, and C. Shapiro agreed that if the Town Manager believes bringing 
Phase 1+ to Fall Town Meeting is the correct strategy, they would support it. C. Sullivan stated 
that he believed the phased approach is too piecemeal. The Commission discussed what occurred 
at the May Town Meeting and the Marshall Park article not passing. K. Menard stated that due to 
the override vote, the Marshall Park article may not have had enough support during the Town 
Meeting. K. Menard stated that it may be challenging to justify bringing the entire project back 
Page  of 47
Park Commission Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2025
===PAGE 5===
to Town Meeting in the Fall, and that a phased approach may be better. C.  Sullivan stated that he 
believes it could make sense to bring forth both Phase 1+ and the full project to the future Town 
Meeting and prioritize Phase 1+ as the ﬁrst article being presented. A. Scheipers stated that it 
may not be legally possible. K. Menard stated that she is concerned with bringing Phase 1+ to 
Fall Town Meeting and having to wait for the debt exclusion ballot question for the project in 
May 2026. A. Scheipers stated that the Commission should ask the Town Manager to produce a 
strategy to fund Phase 1+ or the entire project.
C. Sullivan stated that he is concerned with the phased approach, because Phase 1+ does not 
address any renovations to the baseball/softball ﬁelds. C. Sullivan stated that the ﬁelds will 
continue to signiﬁcantly ﬂood. A. Scheipers stated that the ﬁelds are a smaller user group and 
that Phase 1+ addresses more user groups and increases access and parking to the existing 
facilities. 
The Commission decided to speak with members of Skanska and RDLA to discuss strategies to 
either bring Phase 1+ to Fall Town Meeting or wait to bring the full project to either Fall Town 
Meeting or May Town Meeting in 2026.
K. Menard stated that she and A. Scheipers have been meeting with representatives from 
Skanska and RDLA periodically to discuss the project. A. Scheipers stated that she is willing to 
let other Commissioners be responsible for meeting with the representatives. K. Menard stated 
that her term expires in less than a year. She stated that she recommends another Board member 
to take her place, to meet with the representatives consistently. C. Sullivan stated that he is 
willing to meet with the representatives and to take the place of A. Scheipers. A. Scheipers stated 
that she won’t be attending the design team meetings anymore, but will be available for 
assistance with the ﬁnancial portion of the project. 
A. Scheipers said she will communicate with the design team and will tell them the Commission 
agrees to spend down the remaining funds on the design plans. A. Scheipers stated that she will 
reach out to the Finance Director to make sure there are enough funds through ARPA.
K. Menard stated that organizers of the skate park at Marshall Park have asked to present their 
3D Model to the Parks Commission at a future meeting. 
MINUTES FOR APPROV AL
K. Menard tabled the approval of the meeting minutes until the next meeting. 
OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE REPRESENTATIVE ASSIGNMENT
K. Menard stated that a former Commissioner was the Open Space Committee representative; 
she stated that there is now a vacancy, and it must be appointed by the Commission. 
Page  of 57
Park Commission Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2025
===PAGE 6===
K. Menard moved to appoint Colleen Shapiro as the Park Commission representative for 
the Open Space Committee, effective immediately. Seconded by A. Scheipers. Call for the 
vote: Five-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).
NEW RECORDING CLERK: ANTHONY SENESI
K. Menard stated that Anthony Senesi was recently appointed by the Select Board to be the Park 
Commission Recording Clerk/Secretary. 
CHAIR UPDATES
K. Menard recommended that the Park Commission have a meeting with the representatives of 
the skate park to discuss the 3D models and renderings. The Commission informally agreed. 
K. Menard recommended that the Park Commission have a meeting with the Town Manager to 
discuss in-depth the ﬁnancials of the Recreation Department and the Facilities Department 
because of the small source of revenue that is being generated and the large amount of funding 
being spent. A. Scheipers agrees that the Town Manager should be invited to discuss the ﬁnancial 
situation of the Recreation Department. K. Menard stated that she believed hiring a full-time 
Recreation Director would assist with having the Recreation Department be entirely self-funded 
and self-sufﬁcient regarding revenue. A. Scheipers stated that she sent out a survey to 
surrounding communities regarding their fee structure for recreation programming and received 
a 30% response rate. K. Menard stated that she recommends meeting with the Town Manager 
and Finance Director as early as August to determine program fee rates. C. Sullivan stated that 
the Commission should vote on the new rates to give enough time for user groups to advertise 
and adjust. 
COMMISSION MEMBER UPDATES
No updates. No public comments.
UPCOMING MEETING DATES
The Commission is meeting next on July 30, 2025. The Commission will meet on August 20, 
2025.
OTHER BUSINESS
None.
ADJOURNMENT
Page  of 67
Park Commission Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2025
===PAGE 7===
C. Sullivan moved to adjourn. Seconded by C. Shapiro. Call for the vote: Five-aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).
Meeting adjourned at 8:45 P.M.
Respectfully Submitted,
Anthony Senesi,
Recording Clerk
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Park Commission on: 
Wednesday ______
Member ____made the Motion to Approve the minutes of June 4, 2025.  Seconded by 
Member ____.  Call for the Vote: Five-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (5-0-0)
Page  of 77
Park Commission Meeting Minutes
June 4, 2025