===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission March 26, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 31
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Tim Lawless, Member  
Minutes 
March 26, 2025
1)A. Scheipers opened the meeting at 7pm. Present: A. Scheipers, K. Menard, C. Sullivan, C. Shapiro, T. 
Lawless. Additional Attendees: Chris Ruth, Angela Clement
2) Facilities Director Update
C. Ruth updated the commission that the landscapers have complete cleanup of softball and Powell ﬁeld. 
Scheduled to do the 90’ diamond, Fitzgerald and McNally.
3) Accounting updates for Parks accounts
C. Ruth provided copies of the ﬁnancials and will update at the next meeting.
4) Recreation Director Update
Clement updated that April Vacation camps are coming up and Session 3 of Pickleball ends this week. 
Another session will run one day a week as another group is using the gym one of the days. Summer 
camps are moving ahead and they have enough to run STEM Camps, have 12 registered so far for 
Soccer Camp and the multi sports programs are later in the summer. Beach hiring going well. Received 
an applicant for Beach Director. Water Safety Instructor certiﬁcation is becoming an issue. K. Menard 
asked if we could offer non Red Cross swimming lessons. A. Clement said she would look into it. A. 
Clement mentioned for Beach Hours it may be beneﬁcial to take off one hour a day. K. Menard said she 
spent some time reviewing information Angela provided and said there were great turnouts when swim 
lessons were being held. After that the number decreases and that afternoon attendance was low across 
the board. She thought some sort of adjustment should be made just wasn’t sure where. J. Bowser added 
that things did get quiet by the end of the season. A. Clement thought weekend hours should be left the 
same but could consider changing the weekday hours. A. Clement also thought adding different sessions 
of swim lessons may help with afternoon attendance. A. Clement also mentioned the posting 
requirements for the Nashoba Board of Health.
5) Spring All Vendor Fair update
A. Clement and J. Gilchrest (Lunenburg Business Association) updated the commission that work 
continues on the Vendor Fair.
•over 60 vendors signed up for the Vendor Fair
•Dunk tank
•Games
•Having difﬁculty ﬁnding more food trucks and they have gone through the list provided by the 
Nashoba Board of Health.
•J. Gilchrest showed map of anticipated setup.
•Working with public safety and still looking for volunteers to help the day of.
•Memorial Drive will be closed down.
•Still working on some additional details. 

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission March 26, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 32
6) Marshall Park User Fees
A. Scheipers said she wanted to keep this on the agenda as a place holder. K. Menard requested that it be 
changed to Park User Fees since any chance would effect all of the parks. A. Scheipers said she and C. 
Sullivan were still collecting user fees from other communities for reference. 
7) Skate Park Update
A. Scheipers said Skate Park is still looking to start their project this summer. She said the Skate Park 
group had a question about how the Park Project will ﬁt around the Skate Park area. A. Scheipers 
permission has been given for Greg Roy (Skate Park) to speak with the engineer working with the 
Landscape Architect. 
8) Marshall Park Updates: 
A. Scheipers said that our article is intended to be on the warrant for the borrowing of Marshall Park. 
Bond Council provided two options - cost for entire project $13,735,372  and cost for Phase 1 only with 
buildings $6,460,691. Bond Council worked with us to determine the impact these numbers would have 
on the average tax payer. For each option they are giving an option for a 15 or 18 year borrowing period. 
For the full project at 18 years the impact for the average single family house would be $231 per year. 
For phase one only at 18 years the impact for the average single family house would be $111 per year. 
The commission decided on April 9 at 7pm and April 26 at 10am for Public Meetings regarding the 
project. Consultants would be present for the meetings. C. Ruth will verify availability of TCP Gym.
b) Citizen request for Memorial area to be established in park 
A. Scheipers said she received a request from Dave Rodgers to include a memorial area within the park. 
Commission was open to the idea. A. Scheipers thinks we should start by having a discussion with the 
Landscape Architect. 
9) Approval of invoices for payment - none 
10) Discussion on Upcoming Board Reorganization
A. Scheipers informed the commission that she does not want to be the Chair when the board 
reorganizes in May and wants the members to think about stepping up to that position. 
11) Chair Updates - none 
12) Commission Member Updates - none 
13) Approval of minutes 
C. Shapiro pointed out that in the February minutes her name in one spot needed to be changed to C. 
Shapiro. K. Menard said she’d make that change.  
 
C. Sullivan motioned and K. Menard seconded to a prove the minutes of January 15, 2025 and February 
19, 2025 as amended. Vote 5-0. 
14) Upcoming Meeting Dates: tentatively April 9 and April 26. 
15) Other Business - none 
16) Adjourn
T. Lawless motioned and K. Menard seconded to adjourn at 8:28pm. Vote 5-0.