===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission February 19, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Tim Lawless, Member  
 January 15, 2025
MINUTES
Members present: Anita Scheipers, Karin Menard, Tim Lawless, and Christopher Sullivan
Absent: Colleen Shapiro
Additional Attendees: Angela Clement, and Chris Ruth
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director Updates
C. Ruth stated he had no updates.
Next item on the agenda, Recreation Director Updates
A. Clement stated J. Belliveau posted the lifeguard and Beach Director positions. J. Belliveau indicated she 
would like to be part of the interview process.
A. Clement created a list from the POS system at the beach, which she shared with K. Menard.
A. Clement stated she is ﬁnding that the busiest times for the beach were 10 am - 1 pm with 1200 individuals. 1 
pm - 4 pm 366 individuals and 4 pm - 7 pm had 183 individuals.
A. Clement stated she is looking into offering afternoon swim lessons Monday - Friday.
A. Clement asked J. Belliveau if it would be allowable to increase the lifeguards salary if they were Water 
Safety Instructor (WSI) certiﬁed. J. Belliveau stated yes.
K. Menard asked if the town reimburses the lifeguards for the cost of the WSI test. A. Clement stated yes.

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission February 19, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 42
The Commission discussed other avenues to advertise for the Beach Director, social media being one of them.
A. Clement stated 2 programs are running for February vacation, STEM which will be in the classroom. The 
full-day class is full, with 12 registrations. The Multi-Sports program for 8-12 years is running in the gym, 10 
are enrolled.
A. Clement stated that on February 7th, in the afternoon, they would have Wildlife Encounters which offers a 
junior zookeeper program, $10 per person with a $30 cap for families. A. Clement noted the class can hold 60, 
there are 40 registrations currently.
A. Clement stated she spoke with Stacy at MIIA about the Vendor Fair and the petting zoo, bounce house and 
the dunk tank are not covered under the insurance. The vendors will have their own liability insurance.
A. Clement would like the volunteers to be CORI checked.
C. Sullivan suggested using Sign Up Genius for the volunteers.
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Updates
The Commission reviewed the updated layout of the planned renovations. A. Scheipers noted there would be no 
work on the wetlands, Marshall Pond, and the boardwalk. That will be set for a later date.
A. Scheipers noted the revised phase 1 in blue includes parking. The revised phase 2 in green areas includes 
improvements to the ball ﬁelds.
A. Scheipers noted the Men’s ﬁeld needs to be raised. 
C. Ruth stated the Men’s ﬁeld would need to be raised 6 inches to a foot for drainage.
A. Scheipers noted phase 2 also included parking off Chestnut Street.
A. Scheipers noted phase 2B includes the pavilion, food court, bathroom facilities, and picnic pavilion that are 
adjacent to the skate park and playground. Phase 2B also includes another bathroom facility by the softball 
ﬁeld.
A. Scheipers asked C. Ruth if the Board of Health money could be used for connection to the town sewer 
instead of installing a septic system. C. Ruth will reach out to the Board of Health.
A. Scheipers asked if the walkways were concrete. C. Ruth stated they are shown as asphalt.
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission February 19, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 43
A. Scheipers asked if lights were needed on the access drive-in from Mass. Ave. C. Ruth noted there are lights 
in the parking area, adding one or two more would be a wise thing to do.
A. Scheipers indicated the announcer’s booth can no longer be 2 stories as it is not handicapped accessible. C. 
Ruth suggested running water and power lines with the possibility of getting a booth(s) donated.
A. Scheipers conﬁrmed with C. Ruth that the utilities would be brought to those areas, capped off and booths 
built later. C. Ruth stated yes.
A. Scheipers asked about relocating the existing memorials/monument stones on Marshall Park with the area to 
be determined. C. Ruth stated the one with the scoreboard will stay with the scoreboard the rest will have to be 
looked into. K. Menard will go through her notes to see what memorials were currently on the property.
T. Lawless asked where the announcing booths and scoreboards were shown on the plan. C.  Ruth stated the 
announcing booths are shown as white blocks behind the plates and the scoreboards are not shown.
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park Design and Phasing; next steps; preparation for annual town meeting
A. Scheipers stated the Select Board is still wanting to work collaboratively with the Commission by putting 
their construction projects in line with the Marshall Park project. The Select Board has a lot of building 
renovations and improvements to be put on the warrant.
K. Menard asked if Marshall Park and the buildings were to be one article, could it be split out. A. Scheipers 
stated as one article it would be itemized so motions could be made to remove items. A. Scheipers noted that 
was her understanding but would check with the Town Manager and if necessary Town Council.
T. Lawless asked to what extent are the baseball/softball ﬁelds being redone in phase 2A. A. Scheipers indicated 
most work will be done on the men’s ﬁeld as drainage will be required underneath. A. Scheipers noted the 
softball ﬁeld is more of a realignment.
T. Lawless asked when the ﬁelds are not used by the school can anyone access them or will they be blocked off. 
K. Menard stated they are public ﬁelds and anyone can use them.
Next item on the agenda, Invoices to be approved
None. A. Scheipers notes the ones that came in she and K. Menard signed-off on as approved by the 
Commission.
Next item on the agenda, Earth Day Cleanup – does the Commission want to be involved formally
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission February 19, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 44
C. Sullivan feels the way the Commission participated last worked well.
K. Menard would like to see an event that would include the younger children.
Next item on the agenda, Master Planning Committee assignment 
A. Scheipers noted the Commission has taken no action.
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates 
A. Scheipers indicated a thank you had been received from the skate park group for the Commission’s support.
Next item on the agenda, Commission Updates 
None.
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes
None.
Adjourned: 7:59 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary