===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Park Commission February 19, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 41
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                                 
Anita Scheipers, Chair       978.582.4146 
Colleen Shapiro, Vice Chair         960 Mass Ave. 
Karin Menard, Clerk                           Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Chris Sullivan, Member 
Tim Lawless, Member  
February 19, 2025
MINUTES
Members present: Anita Scheipers, Tim Lawless, Christopher Sullivan and, Colleen Shapiro 
Absent: Karin Menard
Additional Attendees: Chris Ruth
Meeting to order at 7:00 PM and A. Scheipers read “This meeting is being broadcast live and digitally 
recorded.” 
First item on the agenda, Facilities Director Updates
C. Ruth stated he received an abutters list from the Conservation Commission for a project to put in a parking 
lot at Table Rock on Northﬁeld Road. It project is not a concern to the commission.
C. Ruth received a call from the school’s athletic director asking if LYSA could use the outﬁeld of the 90 foot 
diamond to set up a ﬁeld there. The Schools are trying to restore their ﬁeld and use them less. C. Ruth noted 
LYSA would have to paint the lines and move the nets Parks would able to do that. C. Sullivan had concerns 
there would not be enough ﬁeld space for 2 games simultaneously. C. Sullivan also questioned if the ﬁeld is big 
enough for an 11 vs 11 team. 
C. Ruth stated it was only for a season so the turf had a chance to come back on LYSA’s ﬁeld.
C. Sullivan made a motion conditionally to approve LYSA to use the outﬁeld of the 90 foot diamond or any 
other ﬁeld that is suitable. C. Shapiro seconded. The chair called for a vote. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
A. Scheipers asked if C. Ruth received the value of the revolving fund. C. Ruth indicated the value of the 
revolving fund is forty thousand dollars and the ﬁnance director is looking for the commission to take a vote on 

===PAGE 2===
Lunenburg Park Commission February 19, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 42
the amount. A. Scheipers asked if the amount could be amended by a vote of the commission. C. Ruth stated 
yes.
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve the $40,000 budget for the revolving fund. C. Shapiro seconded. The 
chair called for a vote. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, RecreationDirector Updates
A. Scheipers read the updates that were sent along from A. Clement.
• Vendor Fair is set for May 10, 2025.
• Vendor registration is closed. Roughly 70 vendors. Food trucks are all Nashoba Board of Health 
approved.
• She is still in need of volunteers for the petting zoo, parking, etc.
• She is looking for a place to print T-shirts.
• The bounce house may not be allowed because of insurance.
• New sessions of Wednesday and Thursday pickleball and Thursday volleyball starting this week.
• Three applications have been received for the Beach Positions. Two decided they are not interested. One 
is being interviewed next Monday.
• Very low interest by previous lifeguards in returning. Only 2 are deﬁnite.
• No interest in the Beach Director position 
C. Sullivan stated he knows a place to get the T-shirts done.
C. Ruth indicated he had reached out to the Superintendent to see if any teachers had any interest. C. Ruth also 
spoke to the teen center.
Next item on the agenda, Marshall Park:  Park 60% design discussion and review of cost estimates/V ote phases 
and cost to insert in town meeting warrant article.
A. Scheipers stated the commission needs to decide tonight on the 60% design and what phase or phases does 
the commission want to move forward with.
R. Dunetz from RDLA explained the two cost estimators were 30% different. The cost estimators discussed 
with each other how they got their numbers and they got down to a 7% difference in their numbers.
R. Dunetz indicated phase 1 had added parking on Mass. Ave. Phase 2 is broken into A and B.
Phase 2A encompasses the ﬁelds and parking on Chestnut Ave and phase 2B is the buildings.
===PAGE 3===
Lunenburg Park Commission February 19, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 43
R. Dunetz indicated possibly eliminating a restroom for cost savings. They have a 10% contingency.
R. Dunetz stated that phase 1 and 2 would be around 13 million dollars.
A. Scheipers clariﬁed the numbers being discussed were the construction related numbers. The design is 60%. 
A. Scheipers asked that moving forward with phase 1 there is still design work needed to be done, permits etc.. 
R. Dunetz stated he does not have that number as the commission needs to decide which direction they are 
going.
C. Sullivan is not in favor of eliminating a bathroom. C. Ruth noted there is Board of Health money available to 
repair the septic or to connect to town sewer. R. Dunnis stated the cost for the bathroom is approximately 
$250,000.
C. Sullivan read a letter submitted by K. Menard. K. Menard would like to continue the path of bringing phases 
1, 2 and 2A to Town Meeting and letting the residents decide. If the Commission does not support that she 
hopes phase 1 at a minimum is brought forward, proper parking is needed at Marshall Park, a proper playground 
is well overdue. Also, the sports courts will bring much needed space.
T. Lawless expressed concern with paying for all the design up front if the town doesn’t move forward with 
implementing some of those phases. 
C. Sullivan echoed K. Menard’s opinion. C. Shapiro also agrees that the resident should have the opportunity to 
decide. T. Lawless is of the same opinion to let the town decide. A. Scheipers also feels the whole project 
should be put forward.
C. Shapiro made a motion to vote to approve the design and do the construction oversight of the construction 
for phases 1, 2A and 2B for the Marshall Park improvements with the understanding that the construction cost 
and general conditions cost would be $13,080,797 plus the additional Skanska expenses that may need to be 
added. T. Lawless seconded. V ote taken. All in favor (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Invoices to be approved
A. Scheipers presented an invoice for approval from RDLA for the period from 1/1-1/31/2025 in the amount of 
$29,737 invoice # 24555-05. OPM (Scanska) is recommending approval.
C. Sullivan made a motion to approve. C. Shapiro seconded. The Chair called for a vote. All in favor, motion 
carried (4-0).
 
===PAGE 4===
Lunenburg Park Commission February 19, 2025 Meeting Minutes Page  of 44
Next item on the agenda, Chair Updates 
A. Scheipers indicated there was a mistake in the election cycle. A. Scheipers should have been re-elected for 1 
year term not a 3 year term. A. Scheipers' position now also needs to go on the ballot.
Next item on the agenda, Approval of Minutes
T. Lawless made a motion to approve the minutes for November 6, 2024. C. Sullivan seconded. The Chair 
called for a vote. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
C. Shapiro made a motion to approve the minutes for December 18, 2024. C. Sullivan seconded. The Chair 
called for a vote. All in favor, motion carried (4-0).
Next item on the agenda, Commission Updates 
T. Lawless stated the Open Space Committee had discussed a property at 100 Townsend Harbor Rd and the 
Right of First Refusal. The Open Space Committee would like the Select Board to exercise their right and 
acquire the property.
T. Lawless asked the Commission if they had any potential use for the property. The Commission does not have 
an interest at this time.
Adjourned: 8:15 pm
Andrea Mastrototoro, Board Clerk, Secretary