===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
                                               
Karin Menard, Chair     978.582.4146 
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair       960 Massachusetts Ave 
Marianne Mascari, Member                       Lunenburg, MA 01462        
Colleen Shapiro, Member 
Anita Schiepers, Member 
    
MINUTES 
Wednesday, July 30, 2025 
Members Present: Chair Karin Menard, Vice-Chair Chris Sullivan, Member Anita Scheipers  
Members Absent: Member Colleen Shapiro, Member Marianne Mascari  
Also Present: Facilities Director Chris Ruth (via Zoom), Recreation Director Angela Clement 
(via Zoom), Select Board Member Glenn McLeod 
OPEN MEETING 
Chair K. Menard called the meeting to order at 7:00 PM. K. Menard informed attendees that the 
meeting was being recorded and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. She explained 
that the agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other 
items not listed could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law. 
BOARD & PUBLIC COMMENT 
None. 
FACILITIES DIRECTOR UPDATE 
Facilities Director C. Ruth provided an update. C. Ruth stated that the bids for the resurfacing of 
the Wallace tennis courts are due back on Monday, August 4, 2025. C. Ruth noted that the 
original contractor thought they were on the State’s bid list; however, paperwork was missing, so 
the Town had to put the project out to bid. C. Ruth stated that the original contractor can still bid 
on the project. 
C. Ruth stated that the Lake Whalom weed treatment project is on the Conservation 
Commission’s agenda for their August 19, 2025, meeting. C. Ruth suggested that K. Menard 
attend the meeting. K. Menard stated that she plans to attend the meeting. 
Page  of 18
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
July 30, 2025

===PAGE 2===
C. Ruth stated that there was vehicular damage at Wallace Park. C. Ruth stated that a vehicle 
drove through a fence and the toddler play structure at the Wallace Park playground. K. Menard 
stated that a neighbor contacted C. Ruth regarding the damage. K. Menard stated that the 
damaged playground structure was removed. C. Ruth stated that existing mulch had to be 
removed and refilled with new mulch due to broken glass from the vehicle. C. Ruth stated he is 
working with the Town’s insurance company to file a claim. C. Sullivan stated that the vehicle’s 
driver has been in contact with the Police. C. Ruth stated that it appears to have been an accident.  
K. Menard asked C. Ruth if the merry-go-round at Wallace Park and the two-person swing had 
been replaced. C. Ruth stated that the items discussed at the prior Commission meeting were 
replaced at Wallace Park.  
RECREATION DIRECTOR UPDATE 
Recreation Director A. Clement provided an update. A. Clement stated that the Town Beach has 
been busy since the opening of the season. A. Clement stated that she has identified some ways 
to streamline check-in at the beach. A. Clement stated that the card reader still requires inputting 
the address of the user and other information. A. Clement stated that she will be looking into 
different systems that streamline the process for next summer. 
 
A. Clement stated that the swimming lessons have gone well so far. A. Clement stated that the 
new afternoon sessions aren’t as busy as the morning sessions; however, she said that they have 
been a good alternative for some parents and guardians. A. Clement stated that all sessions have 
sold out for sessions 1, 2, and 3. A. Clement stated that she would recommend hiring an 
additional lifeguard for the 2026 season. 
A. Clement stated that there have been staff scheduling issues this summer. A. Clement stated 
that due to staff shortages, the Town Beach will be closed this Sunday, August 3, 2025. A. 
Clement stated that on July 21, 2025, the Town Beach was closed due to staffing shortages. A. 
Clement stated that the target date for closing swimming at Town Beach will be August 23, 2025, 
due to lifeguards going back to school/college. 
A. Clement stated that the last summer youth program is next week. A. Clement stated that she is 
currently planning Fall 2025 programming. A. Clement stated that she does not have finalized 
dates yet. A. Clement stated that there will be more painting nights with The Painted Goat. A. 
Clement stated that the STEM program will occur. A. Clement stated that she has been talking to 
Good Pickin’ Farm and will continue the ‘books and bunnies’ program. 
Page  of 28
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
July 30, 2025
===PAGE 3===
A. Clement stated that the pickleball program will occur on more dates. A. Clement stated that 
the pickleball program will end depending on the weather; she stated that mid-late October is 
what she’s projecting as the end of the program for the year. She stated that there will be a 
beginner program and an intermediate level program.  
K. Menard stated that she will send A. Clement the Cultural Council grant information that is due 
in September or October. 
C. Sullivan asked A. Clement that when there are future lifeguard staffing shortages, could the 
Town hire per-diem lifeguards. A. Clement stated that it is a good idea and will investigate. A. 
Clement stated that this staffing shortage issue is due to staff only being able to work less than 40 
hours, and due to the new afternoon swimming lessons. A. Clement stated that Jared, the 
manager at the Town Beach, has been well organized this year. 
MARSHALL PARK PROJECT: REVIEW, DISCUSSION AND DECISIONS ON NEXT 
STEPS 
K. Menard stated that there is currently $13,000 allocated in ARPA funds for the Marshall Park 
Project. K. Menard stated that if the Park Commission doesn’t expend the funds by December 
31, 2025, the funds will be returned to the Federal government. K. Menard stated that there is 
$97,000 remaining to be expended to get the Marshall Park Project to the 75% design level. K. 
Menard stated that she and C. Sullivan had a meeting with Tom Doolittle and Ray Dunit. K. 
Menard stated that expending $13,000 would not provide the Town with substantial deliverables. 
A. Scheipers stated that she would recommend that the Commission expend the $13,000 
remaining to design and plan for the smaller Phase 1+ Marshall Park Project. 
C. Sullivan stated that he believes the Commission should move forward with the complete 
design and project. C. Sullivan stated that he is conflicted with presenting Phase 1+ separately. 
C. Sullivan said that passing the full project is cost-effective and addresses all the issues that 
Marshall Park has. C. Sullivan stated that Phase 2 addresses parking on Chestnut Street and the 
drainage issues at the baseball and softball fields. C. Sullivan stated that he believes the 
Commission should continue to spend down the $97,000 to get the design of the project as 
complete as possible. 
K. Menard described what occurred at the May 2025 Annual Town Meeting in regard to how the 
meeting and discussion were moderated. K. Menard stated that there was no opportunity to 
present a smaller project at the Town Meeting. K. Menard stated that she is concerned with the 
timing of when to bring the project back to Town Meeting, due to extenuating circumstances, 
such as a potential Proposition 2 ½ Override and other large-scale Town projects. 
Page  of 38
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
July 30, 2025
===PAGE 4===
K. Menard asked G. McLeod what his thoughts were about the timing of bringing the project 
forward at an upcoming Town Meeting. G. McLeod stated that consistent community outreach 
regarding the project is key. G. McLeod described significant financial constraints in regard to 
the Ritter Memorial Building, Town Hall, TC Passios, PFAS regulations, and the School 
Department.  
A. Scheipers stated that she believes that Phase 1+ addresses significant issues and could be 
brought to Town Meeting separately from the entire project. A. Scheipers stated that Phase 1+ is 
more than preparing for Phase 2. C. Sullivan stated that he agrees with A. Scheipers. C. Sullivan 
stated that the entire project addresses stormwater drainage issues. 
K. Menard stated that she believes that it is too soon to bring the project Fall Special Town 
Meeting due to the outreach and engagement necessary to complete the project. K. Menard stated 
that she believes that the Park Commission should bring the project to the Fall Special Town 
Meeting in 2026. C. Sullivan stated that the decision and outcome of the Tri-Board meetings may 
have an impact on his decision to bring the project to the Annual Town Meeting. A. Scheipers 
stated that the Park Commission doesn’t have to decide to bring forward the article for the May 
Town Meeting right now.  
The Commission’s unofficial consensus was not to bring forward the Marshall Park Project to 
the Fall Special Town Meeting due to concerns about bringing the article back too quickly, after 
it didn’t pass initially. K. Menard stated that she and C. Sullivan will contact the design firm to 
continue spending down the $97,000, including the $13,000 left of ARPA funds. 
LUNENBURG SKATE PARK – PRESENTATION AND UPDATES FROM SKATE PARK 
Anthony Caiozzo presented the Commission with a 3D physical rendering of the proposed 
Lunenburg Skate Park. A. Caiozzo stated that the organizers of the skate park are now engaging 
with a bonding agent who will bond the entire project. A. Caiozzo stated that all components will 
be wrapped into a single bond. A. Caiozzo stated that the plan is to break ground in Spring 2026 
with a 90-day build. 
A. Caiozzo stated that the Lunenburg Skate Park project was initially planned in tandem with the 
Marshall Park project redesign. K. Menard asked A. Caiozzo about the impact of stormwater 
drainage on the Skate Park project. A. Caiozzo stated that he would need to ask Gregory Roy for 
information regarding the drainage that would need to be addressed. 
A. Scheipers recalled from preliminary discussions about the Lunenburg Skate Park project that 
there wouldn’t be significant drainage work that needed to be done, in comparison to the Phase 1 
Page  of 48
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
July 30, 2025
===PAGE 5===
Marshall Park Project. A. Caiozzo stated that he believed it would not be wise for the Lunenburg 
Skate Park project to complete drainage work for it to have to be eventually modified due to the 
Marshall Park Project. A. Scheipers stated that the Park Commission wanted G. Roy to speak 
with the engineer at RDLA to make sure drainage was coordinated properly. A. Caiozzo stated 
that an initial conversation occurred; however, he would need to speak with G. Roy regarding the 
outcome of the conversation.  
A. Caiozzo stated that the target fundraising goal is $372,000. A. Caiozzo stated that they had 
reached 91% of their fundraising goal. A. Caiozzo stated that they hope to have a contract signed 
with the builder by Labor Day. A. 
A. Scheipers stated that the agreement with the Commission and the organizers of the Skate Park 
has expired. K. Menard stated that the Board will vote to grant an extension of the agreement at 
the next meeting. K. Menard said that she will confirm the language of the motion for the 
Commission to vote on. K. Menard stated that she would check in with G. Roy.  
CAPITAL PLANNING – DISCUSSION ON CAPITAL PLANNING ITEMS 
K. Menard stated that she called C. Ruth last week. K. Menard reminded the Commission that 
the Capital Planning Committee will meet in November and December of this year to discuss 
requests. C. Ruth stated that the McNally Park Master Plan is on the capital improvement list. C. 
Ruth stated that the Northfield Park Master Plan is currently a placeholder. K. Menard asked if 
the treatment of lake weeds would be included. C. Ruth stated that the Commission received 
funds for a pilot program last year, and he would recommend waiting to see if the pilot program 
is successful before requesting additional funds. K. Menard recalled that there were two weed 
treatment requests, and one of them did not get funded last year.  
K. Menard suggested including resurfacing and releveling at Fitzgerald Park. C. Ruth suggested 
including the Powell Field dugouts. K. Menard stated that the dugouts are single-use structures, 
and she is concerned about that being considered for funding. 
K. Menard stated that she made a list of potential capital improvement projects. C. Ruth stated 
that he would add his suggestions to the list. K. Menard stated that she would recommend 
pausing any requests for McNally and Northfield because the priority is still Marshall Park. K. 
Menard stated that if the proposed master plans for McNally and Northfield were funded, she 
believes the Commission wouldn’t have the bandwidth for those plans. K. Menard stated that 
fencing should be considered due to winter snowmobile activities that could damage the 
resurfacing work.  
Page  of 58
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
July 30, 2025
===PAGE 6===
K. Menard stated that Veterans Memorial Park needs a clean-up effort. K. Menard stated she 
does not know if a request works within the threshold of capital improvement requests. C. Ruth 
recommends that the Park Commission advocate for additional funds within the operating budget 
to address the maintenance issues of Veterans Memorial Park. C. Ruth stated that for the FY27 
operating budget, he is requesting an additional $10,000. C. Ruth stated that he will send over his 
list of potential capital improvement requests. 
C. Ruth stated that the Town Manager suggested better utilization of the left side of the Town 
Beach. C. Ruth stated that the Town Manager suggested that residents could rent a kayak or 
canoe, or a place to store their kayak/canoe for a fee. 
C. Sullivan stated that he believes the Commission should work on identifying uses and solutions 
to Northfield Park. C. Ruth suggested that a survey be done of the Park to understand the land 
and topography.  
PARKS USER FEES DISCUSSION AND INFORMATION ON CURRENT USER FEES 
AND FUTURE USE FEE ADJUSTMENTS 
K. Menard stated that she had a meeting with C. Ruth and the Town Manager regarding user 
fees. K. Menard asked C. Ruth to provide the Commission with the cost of the current contracts 
for maintenance. K. Menard stated that the Town far exceeds the number of mowings that are 
included in the contract. C. Sullivan requested the actual number of mowings and weeding. K. 
Menard presented the Commission with what the School Department charges for the use of their 
fields by the hour. K. Menard stated that the School Department significantly increased their 
rates this year.  
K. Menard stated that there were 148 residents in the youth baseball program, and they reserved 
the fields from April 3rd through June 30th. K. Menard stated that they reserved five fields seven 
days a week. K. Menard stated that the Town doesn’t know when the fields are free during that 
time frame and cannot offer the fields to any other groups because of how it is currently 
scheduled. K. Menard presented the Commission with the comparison between the School and 
Town field user fees. C. Sullivan stated that he reached out to neighboring communities and 
received a response from the Town of Groton, which is determining their new fee structure. C. 
Sullivan stated that the Town of Clinton doesn’t charge for town or youth sports, but schedules 
the fields hourly. K. Menard stated that the Town of Townsend leases fields to user groups, and 
the groups maintain the fields themselves.  
K. Menard stated that she is not recommending increasing the fees based on the total amount of 
maintenance to the fields. K. Menard stated that it is unfair for a user group to have the Town 
increase fees without significant advanced notice. K. Menard stated that she recommends that 
Page  of 68
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
July 30, 2025
===PAGE 7===
there be fine-tuning of some of the policies in regard to scheduling the fields. K. Menard stated 
that the Commission may need to request more information regarding the number of participants 
for the youth baseball program.  
A. Scheipers recommended that the forms be updated to collect accurate information from the 
user groups. K. Menard suggested that she could meet with A. Clement and update the forms to 
capture more information. C. Sullivan stated that he will reach out to the youth baseball program 
to get more information regarding their program. K. Menard stated that she would send C. 
Sullivan what she initially sent to the youth baseball program.  
CHAIR UPDATES 
K. Menard stated that the Commission received a concern from a resident regarding dogs at 
McNally Field. K. Menard stated that the resident spoke to the dog owner about there being no 
dogs allowed at McNally Field. K. Menard stated that the resident said that the dog owner was 
dismissive. K. Menard stated that there is signage posted at the Field, as well as a Park 
Commission policy. K. Menard stated that she reached out to the Town Manager regarding the 
enforcement of the policy. K. Menard stated that the enforcement is non-criminal and that a 
Town employee or Park Commissioner could be designated as the enforcement agent. K. Menard 
stated she is awaiting a response from the Town Manager, who brought the issue up to Town 
Counsel. K. Menard stated that Town Counsel is having open office hours next month, and that 
she plans to discuss the issue with Adam Costa.  
K. Menard informed the Park Commission that the Montachusett Regional Planning Commission 
(MRPC) and the Massachusetts Department of Outdoor Recreation (MDOR) asked the 
Commission for permission to catalogue and photograph the Town’s outdoor recreation resources 
for a Statewide database. The Commission agreed to allow them to catalogue the Town’s outdoor 
resources. 
OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE UPDATES 
None. 
APPROV AL OF MINUTES 
A. Scheipers stated that her name is misspelled several times in the June 4, 2025, minutes. C. 
Sullivan stated that he said flood instead of floor on page 5 of the June 4, 2025 minutes. The 
amendments were accepted by the Commission. 
Page  of 78
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
July 30, 2025
===PAGE 8===
A. Scheipers moved to approve March 26, 2025, April 9, 2025, April 26, 2025, and June 4, 
2025, amended minutes. Seconded by C. Sullivan. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The motion 
passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
 
UPCOMING MEETING DATES 
The Commission stated that their next meeting will be tentatively on August 20, 2025. 
OTHER BUSINESS 
None. 
ADJOURNMENT 
A. Scheipers moved to adjourn. Seconded by C. Sullivan. Call for the vote: Three-aye. The 
motion passed unanimously (3-0-0). 
Meeting adjourned at 8:32 P.M. 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Anthony Senesi, 
Recording Clerk 
These Minutes were reviewed and approved by the Park Commission on:  
Wednesday ______ 
Member ____made the Motion to Approve the minutes of July 30, 2025.  Seconded by 
Member ____.  Call for the Vote: Five-aye. Motion Passed unanimously (5-0-0)
Page  of 88
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
July 30, 2025