===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission 
Agenda
Ritter Building - Lower Meeting Room
Wednesday, July 30, 2025
7:00pm
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and it will be 
broadcasted over Lunenburg Public Access channel and uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel. This meeting will be 
held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in- person meeting. Please 
note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the public, the meeting will 
not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. 
Members of the public with particular interest in any speciﬁc item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual 
attendance accordingly.
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To 
Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/87250986359, or from a telephone, dial the toll-free number (888) 475- 4499 and enter Meeting ID: 
872 5098 6359. If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. Note: No participant 
ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and 
app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting, and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. V otes 
may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be 
brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
1)Open Meeting
2)Board & Public Comment
3)Facilities Director Update
4)Recreation Director Update
5)Lunenburg Skate Park - Presentation and updates from Skate Park
6)Marshall Park - review, discussion and decisions on next steps
7)Capital Planning - discussion on Capital Planning items
8)Parks User Fees - discussion and information on current user fees and future user fee adjustments
9)Chair Updates
10) Open Space committee updates
11) Approval of minutes
12) Upcoming Meeting Dates
13) Other Business 
1)Matters that may legally come before the Commission not known at the time of posting
2)Correspondence and Announcements
3)Board and Public Comments
14) Adjourn
Karin Menard, Chair
Chris Sullivan, Vice Chair
Marianne Mascari, Member
Anita Scheipers, Member
Colleen Shapiro, Member
960 Mass Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
978.582.4146
Parks@LunenburgMA.gov
