===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town  of Lunenburg  
Park  Commission  
 
 
Chris Sullivan, Chair 
Dan Burns, Vice Chair 
Tanya Dall, Member 
Marianne Mascari, Member 
Karin Menard, Member 
 
 
 
 
 
960 Mass Ave. 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
978.582.4146 
Parks@LunenburgMA.gov 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
Lower Ritter Conference Room, 960 Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg 
Hybrid via Zoom 
Wednesday, June 24, 2026 – 7:00 p.m. 
  
Members Present: Chair Chris Sullivan, Vice-Chair Dan Burns, Member Tanya Dall, Member Marianne 
Mascari, Member Karin Menard (arrived at 7:30)  
Members Absent:   
  
OPEN MEETING  
  
Chair C. Sullivan called the meeting to order at 7:00 P.M. Chair C. Sullivan informed attendees that the meeting was 
being recorded and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the agenda listed topics that may 
be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other items not listed could be brought up as permitted by open 
meeting law.  
  
BOARD & PUBLIC COMMENT  
  
None.  
  
FACILITIES DIRECTOR UPDATE  
  
C. Sullivan stated that he did not receive a report from C. Ruth.   
  
RECREATION DIRECTOR UPDATE  
  
K. Deveau stated that a few participants have registered for the Best Soccer program. K. Deveau stated that most of the 
summer programming will begin in early August due to K. Deveau’s onboarding.  
  
K. Deveau asked the Commission if they have a specific date for the volunteer onboarding session. C. Sullivan stated that 
K. Deveau should decide on a date, and if Commission members are able to attend, they are able to do so. C. 
Sullivan stated that he will check to make sure if an agenda must be posted for the volunteer orientation.  
  
RECREATION DEPARTMENT MISSION STATEMENT (VOTE ANTICIPATED)  
  
K. Deveau stated that she redrafted a mission statement and sent it to the Commissioners for their review. K. Deveau 
stated that she left a handful of elements open for the Commissioners to decide on word choice.  
  
K. Deveau said the redrafted mission statement, it reads:  

===PAGE 2===
 
 
Our mission is to continually develop our Recreation Department and serve our community by offering and maintaining a 
variety of recreational programs and events that promote health and wellness, foster connection through shared 
experiences, and enrich the lives of the community members through enjoyable recreational opportunities.  
  
C. Sullivan stated that he agrees with the drafted mission statement. C. Sullivan stated that since this is a mission 
statement for the Recreation Department, it does not need to be approved by the Park Commission.  
  
T. Dall stated that her suggestion to K. Deveau is to add “cultivate a positive inclusive environment”. K. Deveau agrees 
with T. Dall’s suggestion.  
  
M. Mascari moved to endorse the draft mission statement of the Recreation Department. Seconded by D. 
Burns. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, D. Burns-aye, T. Dall-aye, M. Mascari. The motion 
passed unanimously (4-0-0).  
  
SKATE PARK UPDATE (VOTE ANTICIPATED)  
  
Anthony Caiozzo and Greg Roy were in attendance as representatives of the Lunenburg Skate Park. A. Caiozzo and G. 
Roy introduced themselves and described the background of the Lunenburg Skate Park project.   
  
G. Roy stated that the only permit that the Lunenburg Skate Park received is the order of conditions from the 
Conservation Commission because the Park is within 100 feet of a jurisdictional wetland. G. Roy stated that the 
construction does not require site plan approvals or building permits. G. Roy stated that roughly a year and three months 
ago, a right of entry agreement was executed with the Park Commission. G. Roy stated that the agreement has expired 
since it was over a year ago. G. Roy stated that in the past 6-9 months, the Town and the Skate Park organizers have been 
working on formulating a new right of entry agreement which includes language that would protect the Town by way of a 
bond if the Skate Park organizers were not able to meet their obligations with the Town.  
  
G. Roy stated that Skate Park organizers tried to obtain a conventional bond but were unable to do so due to the nature of 
the project. G. Roy stated that an individual has come forward to personally fund an escrow account to be held by the 
Town to protect the Town’s interests. G. Roy stated that the goal is to keep the Town 110% protected. G. Roy stated that 
the funds in the escrow are based on whether the Town had to publicly bid the project. G. Roy stated that an amount has 
been reviewed. G. Roy stated that he submitted a letter to the Park Commission that describes the specifics of the right of 
entry agreement, including the escrow account.  
  
G. Roy stated that the Skate Park organizers wanted to provide an update to the Park Commission. G. Roy stated that the 
Skate Park general counsel, Town Counsel, and the donor of the escrow need to review the finalized right of entry 
agreement before it is signed and executed by the Park Commission.  
  
  
BEACH HOUSE RENAMING UPDATE  
  
M. Mascari stated that she is determining the surviving family members of Genevieve Nass. M. Mascari stated that she 
has outlined the budget for the ceremony and the sign. M. Mascari stated that the sign would still cost $1,065, and most of 
the cost would be donated by Dillis & Roy Civil Design Group, Inc., and the rest of the cost of the sign would be funded 
by the revolving account. K. Menard stated that M. Mascari should message C. Ruth and the Town Manager asking for 
their guidance on how they would like to proceed. M. Mascari stated that the sign would have the correct address.  
  
M. Mascari described the specific materials that would be needed for the ceremony, including a certificate from the Select 
Board and a photo of G. Nass. M. Mascari stated that she is waiting to hear back from the family 
members regarding proposed dates of the ceremony. K. Menard stated that M. Mascari should reach out to the Town 
Beach Director to coordinate logistics and timing. M. Mascari stated that she is working on a list of invited individuals 
and how to promote the ceremony publicly. M. Mascari stated that purchasing flowers would be an option. M. Mascari 
stated that the budget for this is potentially around $1,500. K. Menard stated that the budget is reasonable; however, the 
funds come from the Revolving Account. K. Menard stated that the priority of the Revolving Account is to make sure that 
the Town has a Recreation Director next year. K. Menard stated that there is a process for donations of funds, but she is 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
not aware of the specifics. C. Sullivan stated that he will ask the Town Manager regarding the process to set up 
a swim lesson/programming scholarship fund.  
  
K. Menard stated that Town Beach is not slated to be open in the Summer of 2027. K. Menard stated that the donation 
fund should be set up to allow for funds to be used to fund the Town Beach in future years. K. Menard stated that G. Nass 
believed that swim lessons were very important to children and that the funds donated should primarily go to 
the swim lesson scholarship fund. T. Dall stated that lifeguard training could also be included in appropriate use of 
donated funds. The Commission described the logistics of when the ceremony could be held.  
  
APPROVAL OF MEETING MINUTES  
  
C. Sullivan stated that the approval of the minutes of May 27, 2026, has been tabled until the next meeting.  
  
UPCOMING MEETING DATES  
  
Wednesday, July 22, 2026, at 7:00 p.m.  
Wednesday, August 26, 2026, at 7:00 p.m.  
  
OTHER BUSINESS  
  
OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS THAT MAY LEGALLY COME BEFORE THE COMMISSION NOT KNOWN 
AT THE TIME OF POSTING  
  
K. Menard stated that at the next Park Commission meeting, the Commission should decide who will be the appointed 
representative of the Open Space Committee.   
  
CORRESPONDENCE AND ANNOUNCEMENTS  
  
K. Menard stated that she encourages the commission members to go to the Town Beach to meet staff and see operation.  
  
BOARD AND PUBLIC COMMENTS  
  
None  
  
ADJOURNMENT  
  
K. Menard moved to adjourn. Seconded by T. Dall. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, K. Menard-aye, D. Burns-
aye, T. Dall-aye, M. Mascari-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  
  
Meeting adjourned at 8:17 P.M.  
 