===PAGE 1===
 
 
Town  of Lunenburg  
Park  Commission  
 
 
Chris Sullivan, Chair 
Dan Burns, Vice Chair 
Tanya Dall, Member 
Marianne Mascari, Member 
Karin Menard, Member 
 
 
 
 
 
960 Mass Ave. 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
978.582.4146 
Parks@LunenburgMA.gov 
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Park Commission Meeting Minutes 
Lower Ritter Conference Room, 960 Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg 
Hybrid via Zoom 
Wednesday, July 22, 2026 – 7:00 p.m. 
  
Members Present: Chair Chris Sullivan, Vice-Chair Dan Burns, Member Tanya Dall, Member Marianne 
Mascari, Member Karin Menard  
Members Absent: None.   
  
OPEN MEETING  
  
Chair C. Sullivan called the meeting to order at 7:00 P.M. Chair C. Sullivan informed attendees that the 
meeting was being recorded and would be uploaded to YouTube after the meeting. He explained that the 
agenda listed topics that may be discussed, but not all items may be addressed, and other items not listed 
could be brought up as permitted by open meeting law.  
  
BOARD & PUBLIC COMMENT  
  
None.  
  
FACILITIES DIRECTOR UPDATE  
  
C. Sullivan stated that C. Ruth provided the Commission with a written update. C. Sullivan stated that the 
weeds at the Town Beach swimming area were pulled this week and were completed today, July 22, 2026. C. 
Sullivan stated that there were no swimming lessons this week. C. Sullivan stated that there will be an update 
next week by C. Sullivan that will determine if the weed pulling was successful. K. Menard stated that it could 
take up to a week for the debris to resettle to the bottom of the swimming area. C. Sullivan stated that some 
buoys were fixed. C. Sullivan notified C. Ruth that there was a hole in a fence near the picnic tables that was 
fixed and secured.   
  
RECREATION DIRECTOR UPDATE  
  
K. Deveau stated that the Town Beach is generally closed by August 23rd; however, due to Labor Day being 
late this year, the Town Beach manager suggested extending the season to August 29th.   
  
K. Menard stated that the Town Beach can be staffed with the regular hours through August 23rd. K. Menard 
stated that if the Town Beach was able to stay open another week, the hours would have to be adjusted to 
12:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. K. Menard stated that when the beach rate schedule was increased in May, there was 
a goal for the revenue to be higher; however, that appears to not have come to fruition. K. Menard stated that 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
she would strongly caution the Commission to open for an additional week, past August 23rd, due to the Town 
Beach salary line being expended. K. Menard stated that the Town Beach salary line is $15,000, and $8,903 
has already been expended. K. Menard stated that once the $15,000 is expended, the salary costs will come 
out of the Revolving Account from the beach fees that are collected.  
  
T. Dall recommended closing the Town Beach on August 23rd to make sure that more funds are saved for the 
other salaries being funded by the Revolving Account.   
  
K. Menard stated that the Beach Director has stated that out-of-town beachgoers have voiced concern that the 
out-of-town beach rates are too high.   
  
K. Menard and K. Deveau stated that they can’t currently confirm the specific accuracy of the total membership 
passes, day passes, and swim lessons; however, they believe that more revenue has been generated 
compared to this time last year. K. Menard stated that even though the number of swimming lessons offered 
has decreased, the number of lesson registrants has increased.  
  
D. Burns stated that if more day passes are not sold, it does not make sense financially to keep the Town 
Beach open for an additional week.  
  
T. Dall noted that everything the Commission discussed is weather dependent. K. Menard stated that a 
decision about whether to keep the Town Beach open should not occur at this meeting. K. Menard stated that 
if bacteria are blooming in August and the beach is closed, the decision to extend the beach season would be 
easier. K. Menard noted that if there are several days of rain, which leads to closure, it may make sense 
financially to keep the Town Beach open for an additional week. K. Menard stated that a decision should be 
made in the first week of August. K. Menard stated that she would recommend that the Commission meet in 
the first week of August to determine if the Town Beach was to remain open for an additional week.  
  
K. Deveau stated that fall programming will open for registration on August 3rd. K. Deveau stated that this 
Sunday, there is the Volunteer Information Session that will be held at the Library at 1:00 p.m.  
  
K. Menard has asked if any summer programs have been cancelled due to low registration. K. Deveau stated 
that no programming has been cancelled; however, the Kids Test Kitchen has no registrants, so that will most 
likely be cancelled. K. Deveau stated that some programs have low registration, so she is planning to try to 
condense the programs together and not cancel them entirely.  
  
K. Menard suggested that K. Deveau reach out to other organizations to see if they can promote the 
Recreation Department programming. K. Menard stated that the Extended Learning Center, Bonjour School, 
and Saint Boniface Church may be some options.  
  
K. Deveau stated that the Touch a Truck event will be on August 28, 2026, from 12:00 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. K. 
Deveau stated that she has a meeting with the DPW to organize the event.   
  
K. Deveau stated that she spoke with C. Ruth about doing a Costume Parade 5K run this year.cK. Deveau 
stated that the potential route would be from the High School, down Oak Avenue, Northfield Road, to Highland 
Street. K. Deveau stated that the route would not cause closures of main roads. K. Deveau stated that a “Boo 
Dash” could occur around the High School track for children. K. Deveau stated that she suggests getting a 
one-day liquor license for the event. K. Menard stated that she recommends reaching out to the Lunenburg 
Business Association so that the event does not conflict with their Trunk or Treat event.  
  
C. Sullivan stated that the Miles for Miles event occurs every year in mid-October on a Sunday and is a 
fundraiser for the Track & Field Boosters Club. C. Sullivan stated that the event is scheduled for October 18, 
2026. C. Sullivan stated that the potential Costume Parade 5K would be in direct competition with the Miles for 
Miles event. C. Sullivan stated that the Miles for Miles event is always looking for additional runners and 
already does well in securing sponsors. K. Deveau stated that due to the scheduling conflict, she will not 
pursue organizing the new event.   
  
===PAGE 3===
 
 
K. Menard stated that a Color Run occurred down by the lakefront years ago. K. Menard stated that a similar 
yearly event could occur in the winter or spring. K. Menard stated that it could be an alternate event.  
  
T. Dall stated that the new 5K could potentially occur around the weekend of the Turkey Trot in September. C. 
Sullivan suggested picking a separate weekend that does not conflict with long-standing events. C. Sullivan 
stated that local races are very saturated in the area. T. Dall suggested that this potential event be a fundraiser 
to benefit a local charity.   
  
MOU FOR COMMUNITY ROOM USE BETWEEN PARKS & LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES  
  
K. Deveau stated that she spoke with the Public Library to make sure that the Recreation Department’s 
requests for Library space did not conflict or interfere with Library events. K. Deveau stated that the Library 
Director brought the request and agreement to use Library space to the Library Board of Trustees. K. Deveau 
stated that the Library Board of Trustees has concerns regarding the agreement and MOU. K. Deveau stated 
that she suggests waiting until she hears from the Library Director regarding those concerns.  
  
The Commission reviewed the drafted MOU. T. Dall stated that she has concerns with the drafted language 
that describes the Library Board of Trustees and the Park Commission having conflicting missions and values. 
K. Deveau stated that the Library Board of Trustees does not charge the public for events, while the 
Recreation Department does. K. Menard stated she recommends that the MOU be reviewed by others within 
Town administration. K. Menard stated that tax dollars are paid for the Public Library building. K. Deveau 
stated that the concerns of the Library Board of Trustees may stem from additional usage requests by the 
Recreation Department for programming. K. Menard stated that from her perspective, the Public Library falls 
under the category of general town-owned buildings, different from the School Department buildings. T. Dall 
stated that she believes that the Park Commission is considered an internal part of the Town, rather than an 
external/outside entity. T. Dall stated that she appreciates the significant efforts and dedication of Library staff. 
T. Dall stated she needs clarification as to what the MOU describes as a commitment to schedule events on at 
least 75% of the dates reserved. K. Deveau stated that she believes that the Library Board of Trustees is 
concerned with reserved space not being used by the Recreation Department. T. Dall stated that she is curious 
about what the consequence is if the Recreation Department has to cancel programming due to low 
enrollment. K. Deveau stated that she will discuss that question with the Library Director.   
  
M. Mascari stated that she appreciates that within the MOU there is language that requires the Library to 
promote one Recreation Department event within their newsletter every month. K. Deveau stated that she is 
able to choose the event to promote and sends it to the Library staff by the 15th of every month. K. Deveau 
stated that the Library Director stated that the promoted event would be displayed on monitors within the 
Library.  
  
T. Dall stated that she is concerned about the language, which describes the Recreation Department and Park 
Commission as inferior to the Library Board of Trustees because the Recreation Department has to charge a 
fee. K. Menard stated that the Library receives a significantly larger amount of funding from the Town for 
activities and programming compared to the Recreation Department. T. Dall stated that, based on her several 
years of municipal experience, she has not seen MOU language like this.  
  
K. Menard stated that there may be a way for the Park Commission and the Schools to amend the verbal 
reciprocal agreement regarding facility usage. K. Menard stated that, due to limited space in School facilities, 
the School Department uses Commission-maintained fields during certain seasons. K. Menard stated that if 
the Commission has not been able to access School outdoor field space, there may be an opportunity for the 
Commission to propose that the Schools allow the Commission to use indoor space at no cost. K. Menard 
stated that the Schools do not pay any maintenance fees for use of Commission outdoor fields and that a 
reciprocal agreement could be established to allow the Commission to use indoor School space for 
programming. T. Dall agreed that there is currently not an equal reciprocal-use arrangement between the Park 
Commission and the School Department.  
  
C. Sullivan noted several other programs operated by the School Department, such as adult sports leagues. T. 
Dall noted that, in other municipalities, these types of programs are operated by the Recreation Department. K. 
===PAGE 4===
 
 
Menard stated that Commission members could create a town-wide events schedule for programming across 
all departments to identify discrepancies, redundancies, and justifications for providing the Recreation 
Department with additional funding. T. Dall agreed with K. Menard. K. Menard stated that a town-wide 
schedule would be beneficial to present to the Town Manager. K. Menard noted that there is an opportunity to 
create more programming for adults during the evening. K. Deveau stated that more large-scale community 
events could be beneficial. K. Menard stated that K. Deveau’s programming ideas are phenomenal.  
  
D. Burns stated that the Lunenburg Cultural Council sends out a survey asking residents what events and 
programs they would like to see more of in Lunenburg. D. Burns stated that the Cultural Council may allow K. 
Deveau to review the survey results. K. Menard stated that there are opportunities for the Recreation 
Department to apply for Lunenburg Cultural Council grants. D. Burns stated that Cultural Council grant 
applications can be submitted beginning September 1, 2026.  
  
BUDGET / FINANCE REVIEW  
  
K. Menard stated that there have been issues regarding large water bills from outside users using sprinklers. 
K. Menard stated that she will confirm that the other sprinkler systems are locked. C. Sullivan stated that it 
would make sense to have a budget review every other month to make sure there are no discrepancies. T. Dall 
stated that if outside users are utilizing large amounts of water, there may need to be a consideration of raising 
fees.   
  
TOWN BEACH RENAMING UPDATE  
  
M. Mascari stated that there have been delays in getting approvals for the donation of the sign. M. Mascari 
stated that the original Town Beach Renaming Ceremony was to take place on August 3, 2026, but will most 
likely be pushed to August 10, 2026, around 6:00 p.m. – 6:30 p.m. M. Mascari stated that the physical address 
of Town Beach is 265 Prospect Street. K. Menard stated that in prior years there were discrepancies, and K. 
Menard was able to confirm that the address is 265 Prospect Street.  
  
LUNENBURG 300th ANNIVERSARY COMMITTEE REQUEST  
  
C. Sullivan stated that for New Year’s Eve going into 2028 (December 31, 2027), the Lunenburg 300th 
Anniversary Committee is planning a small fireworks display to kick off the 300th anniversary. C. Sullivan stated 
that the 300th Anniversary Committee would like to request use of Marshall Park for the fireworks display.   
  
OPEN SPACE COMMITTEE APPOINTEE  
  
C. Sullivan stated that the Open Space Committee meets once a month, and that the Park Commission 
appoints a member of the Open Space Committee. D. Burns volunteered to represent the Park Commission on 
the Open Space Committee  
  
K. Menard moved to appoint Dan Burns to the Open Space Committee as the representative of the Park 
Commission. Seconded by T. Dall. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, D. Burns-aye, T. Dall-aye, K. 
Menard-aye, M. Mascari. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  
  
APPROVAL OF MEETING MINUTES  
K. Menard stated that she has revisions for the June 24, 2026, meeting minutes. K. Menard stated that she 
would like to move her 7:30 p.m. arrival time to where her name is listed on the first page. K. Menard stated 
that she would like to change the language where she “encourages people” meet beach staff to “encourage 
Park Commissioners” instead.  
  
K. Menard moved to accept the May 27, 2026 minutes, and the June 24, 2026 minutes as amended. 
Seconded by D. Burns. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, D. Burns-aye, T. Dall-aye, K. Menard-aye, M. 
Mascari. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  
  
CHAIR REPORT  
===PAGE 5===
 
 
  
C. Sullivan stated that Lunenburg Skate Park is not an agenda item because both the Town’s legal counsel 
and the Skate Park’s legal counsel are finalizing the agreement.   
  
UPCOMING MEETING DATES  
  
Wednesday, August 26, 2026, at 7:00 p.m.  
Wednesday, September 30, 2026, at 7:00 p.m.  
  
OTHER BUSINESS  
  
OTHER BUSINESS MATTERS THAT MAY LEGALLY COME BEFORE THE COMMISSION NOT KNOWN 
AT THE TIME OF POSTING  
  
None.    
  
CORRESPONDENCE AND ANNOUNCEMENTS  
  
None.   
  
BOARD AND PUBLIC COMMENTS  
  
None  
  
ADJOURNMENT  
  
K. Menard moved to adjourn. Seconded by T. Dall. Call for the vote: C. Sullivan-aye, K. Menard-aye, D. 
Burns-aye, T. Dall-aye, M. Mascari-aye. The motion passed unanimously (5-0-0).  
  
Meeting adjourned at 8:54 P.M.  
  
 