===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: June 8, 2010
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 1 6 2011
LUNANDURG TOWN
CLERE OFFICE
The meeting opened at 5:30 pm. Present: Chris Comeau - Chairman, Matthew
Papini, Sr. - Newly Elected Board Member, Harald Scheid, Regional Assessor, and
Louise Paquette- Administrative Assessing Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants,
payroll & minutes.
Harald, Chris and Louise welcomed newest Member, Matt Papini, Sr. to the Board.
Matt was elected on May 8th for a term of three years and was sworn in by Town Clerk
on June 8, 2010. Matt requested a general overview of the position and was informed
that he is required to complete Course 101: Assessment Administration Law,
Procedures, Valuation as soon as possible or at least within 2 years. Louise will
research when and where this course will be offered. Harald explained to Matt that
the Board is bound by law governing the decisions the Board makes. Harald presented
an overview of the responsibilities of an Assessor. He expressed that the utmost
importance is the compatibility of the Board and stated that the Board has always
shown mutual respect for each other by maintaining a "peaceful" exchange of ideas
and opinions.
Louise informed Matt every year at this time the Chairman of the Board needs to be
appointed and that a motion is needed by a Board Member. Matt proceeded to motion
Chris Comeau as Chairman of the Board and Chris accepted. Also discussed was the
need to fill the seat of Former Member, Ernie Sund. Ernie was recently elected to the
Board of Selectmen. Louise informed the Board that we are in receipt of an
application via the Talent Bank Form. Louis J. Franco of 250 Arbor St. has expressed a
desire to serve on the Board. Harald will be in touch with him to answer any questions
he may have. Louise informed the Board that Mr. Franco is on the agenda this evening
to meet with the Board of Selectmen. The appointment, which is for one year only,
Will be determined by the Board of Selectmen and the Board of Assessors. Louise will
contact him to invite him to next months' meeting.
Louise informed the Board the FY 11 Preliminary billing is underway. She stated that
the Treasurer/Collector, Jeffrey Upgalde has been a great support to her in this billing
process.
A meeting has been scheduled for a presentation of the Vadar System software for
Tuesday, July 20"
at 10am. David has contacted CEO Frank Natale and has received
a proposal. Kerry Speidel and Jeff Upgalde have reviewed the proposal as well. Louise
will contact the staff that presently uses Munis to inform them of the meeting. Chris
stated that he is in support of the "idea" to make the switch to Vadar and will go
along with whatever "we" decide.
===PAGE 2===
Discussed contract renewals: Kerry assured the Board that the Proposal for Bids will
be ready for next week. Harald will be submitting a Proposal. Kerry plans to meet
with the Board at the next meeting. The Board reiterated that they wish to keep RRG
in place along with the contract with Ashby.
Discussion regarding Emerald Place and Tri-Town project: another site visit to be
planned soon. Both projects are moving quickly. Matt expressed an interest in
observing an inspection. He will try to coordinate that with David.
Louise informed the Board that she along with Sheila attended the Worcester County
Assessors Association Clerk's Workshop which was held on May 26 at Wachusett
Country Club. The first topic covered was: "The Ins and Outs of the Registry of Deeds;
presented by Anthony Vigliotti, Register of the Worcester County Registry of Deeds.
The second topic covered was: "Registry of Motor Vehicles Customer Service
Initiatives"; presented by Registrar, Rachel Kaprielian. Louise stated that these
workshops are very informative and finds that meeting other Administrative Assessing
Assistants is very beneficial.
Discussion regarding the date for the next meeting: Chris suggested that we meet on
Tuesday, the 13'h instead of July 6"*. All in agreement: next meeting will be held on
Tuesday, July 13" at 5:30 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 6:25 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Laure Paquitte
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assessing Assistant
