===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Che MP.
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
17 MAIN STREET
LUNENBURG, MA 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 1/ 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: December 7, 2010
The meeting opened at 6:05 pm.
Present: Board Members: Louis J. Franco & Matthew J. Papini, Sr., Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid
and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Chris Comeau, Chairman, arrived at 6:45pm.
Board reviewed and approved abatements, expense vouchers, commitments, warrants, and minutes from
the meeting held on November 16, 2010
Louise presented 8 statutory exemption applications. The Board reviewed and approved 7 applications
totally $4,900.00 and 1 application was denied. Louise reported to date 161 exemptions were granted
totaling $93,030.00. Last year at this time the total was $95,264.00.
Harald informed the Board that we are in good shape and moving along well in the tax process. The
DOR has approved the new growth and we are awaiting tax recap with the tax rate approval. Harald
spoke with Karen and she stated that she is still waiting for a couple of documents that will need to be
signed for the DOR. Louise stated that she has completed all the steps in Munis up to the point of
having a tax rate. She also added that the tax collector has been very supportive in the entire process.
The Tax Work-Off program was discussed. Louise was informed by David Manzello, Associate Assessor
& Tax Work-Off Committee Member, that the program will be viable for next year. Louise contacted the
Senior Center requesting a current application describing the income guidelines.
Kerry Speidel met with the Department Heads regarding the FY 12 Budget. Harald stated that he was
unable to attend but David attended in his place. She indicated that all departments prepare their full
salary and budget line item requests by early January 2011.
In regards to scheduling a meeting with Ashby (Regional Assessors Meeting), Harald suggested that we
wait off for this. He stated that the Board members are new and feels it would not be conducive at this
time.
Louise presented to the Board the 2011 Tax Map Maintenance contract from Cartographic Associates,
Inc. The contract is for processing data recorded during the time period of July 1, 2010 through June 30,
2011. The Board approved and signed the contract for a total of $2,400.00 for these services. Louise
stated that she will be in touch with Mr. Franco Rossi, Vice President and will forward the signed contract
back to him.
Harald spoke about the decrease in valid sales and an increase of foreclosed properties. He reported
that for the month of November, there were only 5 valid sales out of the 16 sales recorded
Louise reported that all but one Chapter application for FY12 has been received in the Office. The
===PAGE 2===
deadline for filing was October 1st
Louise stated that a reminder letter was mailed on October 12, 2010
and a Final Chapter Notice letter was mailed on November 8, 2010 indicating that failure to complete and
return the application would result in the removal of the property from classification and a roll-back tax
will be billed.
The Board will decide next month on what kind of action they plan to take. Louise will
speak with David regarding the projected FY12 tax amounts along with the roll-back tax for this property.
There was some discussion regarding the abatement process. Harald explained to the Board that the RE
& PP abatement period is for one month - all applications need to be submitted on or before Feb. 1,
2011. The Board expressed a desire to be involved in some inspections that may take place on
Saturdays.
Louis Franco requested that we look into updating the Board Members names on our website. Louise will
contact Linda Bradley from CSC (Community Software Consortium) to make these changes ASAP.
The Board voted to meet on January 4, 2011 at 6:00 pm. Meeting adjourned at 7:15 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lauri Taquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
