===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: May 11, 2010
The meeting opened at 5:30 pm. Present: Ernie Sund, Fred Liatsis - Board Member,
Harald Scheid, Regional Assessor, and Louise Paquette- Administrative Assessing
Assistant. Not Present: Chris Comeau - Chairman Also present: Assessor Candidate:
Matthew Papini, Sr. of 77 Pratt St.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, payroll &
minutes.
Town Clerk, Kathryn Herrick submitted to office a certified copy of the Article that
was passed at Town Meeting on May 1, 2010. The article states:
To see if the Town will raise and appropriate the sum of $15,000 to retain the
services of a qualified firm to conduct field audits of all personal accounts
pursuant to a Department of Revenue mandate that all such accounts be audited
at least once every nine years.
Louise informed the Board that she was told by Munis that less support will be
available using the current version 7.0 software package with Munis. David has
contacted Vadar Systems, Inc. for a proposal. Harald stated that maintenance &
support is less costly. Many of the towns associated with RRG use this software and
they are quite pleased with its performance. Presently, Lunenburg uses an integratec
Accountant has been satisfied with Munis but Louise stated that on the Assessor's side
it is not user friendly. Ernie suggested "key" people need to get together and review
the quote that Vadar puts on the table. Louise will inform Jeff Upgalde and Kerry
when we receive the proposal.
The Board reviewed and approved Chapter Liens for Padula/ Shirley Realty Trust/ 137
Leominster / Shirley Rd and 1501 Rear Lancaster Avenue for Agricultural Land 61 A.
Also reviewed and approved: Recreational Land Tax Lien 61B for 484 Mulpus Road /
Berube, Stephen, Linda & Dennis. Louise will submit liens to Registry of Deeds for
recording.
Discussion regarding Emerald Place and Tri-Town project. Ernie stated that he along
with Associate Assessor David Manzello visited the site. Presently, there are nine
buildings ( condo's) up and he stated that the project seems to be moving quickly. He
suggested that the Assessors should go out by the end of June to start photographing
to capture the growth. Ernie stated that he has viewed the Tri-Town development and
that project is moving quickly as well. Presently, there have been 68 permits
received.
Louise reported that the FY 10 Statutory Exemption report for state reimbursement
has been completed, signed, (Board Signatures) filed and received by the State.
===PAGE 2===
Three Supplemental Real Estate bills for FY10 with the committed amount of
$4,994.41 were mailed on May 2, 2010. Louise reported that the properties had
completed their building renovations and had occupancy permits prior to January 1,
Harald discussed his upcoming contract renewal. He stated that he has been in touch
with Town Manager, Kerry Speidel and she wishes to wait until after Town Meeting to
discuss the process. Regarding the association with Ashby, the Board expressed again
that they wish to keep the present contract intact. They also stated that it would
take a Town Meeting vote to disengage with the present association with Ashby.
Next meeting date changed to Tuesday, June 8* at 5:30 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 6:40 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lawn Paguette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assessing Assistant
