===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 1C 2019
LUNE PURG TOWN
CLERK OFLICE
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: August 3*, 2010
The meeting opened at 5:30 pm.
Present: Board Member; Louis Franco (Newly Appointed), Associate Assessor, David Manzello, and Louise
Paquette, Admin. Assistant, Board Member, Matthew Papini, Sr., arrived at 6pm. Not present: Chris Comeau,
Chairman and Harald Scheid, Regional Tax Assessor
Board reviewed and approved warrants, abatements, expense vouchers, payroll and minutes.
Board welcomed new Member, Louis Franco. Louis informed the Board that he had been sworn in with the Town
Louise informed the Board that the RRG contract is still pending renewal.
Louise stated that that there has been an increase in requests for Statutory Exemption applications. Approximately
172 for FY11 applications have been mailed. (At this time last year there were approximately 140 applications
requested) Louise explained the process of the property tax exemptions and deferrals and reviewed with the Board
the guidelines and qualifications needed to be eligible for a tax exemption.
David took the opportunity to discuss various tasks and processes with Matt & Louis. The discussion covered
various subjects including abatements, growth, tax charges, levy limits, assessments, etc. David explained the
difference between what current appraisals are vs. assessments. He explained that the values/assessments are
based on sales of homes that took place approx 18-24 months ago and appraisals are 100% of current market
value. David also spoke about what factors into new growth and how it is calculated.
Louis and Matt expressed the desire to attend Courses 101 as soon as possible. Louise started that the course will
be offered in the fall; the date and location is pending. Courses 101 manual was found on-line and Louise was able
to download and print each a copy to get them started.
Louise discussed the Bell Atlantic Mobile of Massachusetts Corp., Ltd (dba Verizon Wireless) settlement proposal
which the Board approved to abate $1700.00 on the PP Tax Bill #30. Louise will have the certificate available for
signatures at the next meeting.
Discussion regarding the date for the next meeting: Louise suggested meeting on the 14 of Sept. rather than the
7" (day after Labor Day) Board was in agreement and will contact Chris for approval.
Meeting adjourned at 7:05 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lause Q. Paguette
Louise A. Paquette
Administrative Assessing Assistant
