===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: October 5, 2010
RECEIVED & FILED
FED 16 2011
LUNDE UNG TOWN
CLERK OPFICE
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chris Comeau, Chairman; Board Member, Matthew J. Papini, Sr., Board Member, Louis J.
Franco Regional Assessor Harald Scheid and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved abatements, expense vouchers, commitments, warrants, and minutes from
the meeting held on September 14, 2010
Louise informed the Board that she has received the signed contract from Ashby and the contractual
amount from Ashby was received on October 4, 2010. Chairman of the Board, Chis Comeau signed the
contract and Louise will deliver contract to Accountant for her signature.
Louise presented approx. 21 statutory exemption applications. The Board reviewed and approved 19
applications totally $11,830.00 and 2 applications were denied. Louise informed the Board that she
received 2 Clause 22D Veteran Applications (which were approved last year) which entitles the applicants
to receive full tax exemption thru FY 13. (Clause 22D exemption applies to the surviving spouse of a
soldier, sailor or member of the National guard "whose death occurred as a proximate result of an injury
sustained or disease contracted in a combat zone, or who are missing in action with a presumptive
finding of death as a result of combat as members of the armed forces of the United States... This
exemption allows full exemption from taxes for five years and a reduction of taxes up to $2500.00 per
year thereafter)
Harald spoke to the Board regarding Chapter Accounts- describing the types of Land Classifications;
Forest, Agricultural/Horticultural and Recreational. He explained the process of applying and qualifying for
chapter land classification. The Board reviewed and approved two new 61A (Agricultural) chapter
applications for FY 12. Applications submitted by Matthew Woodward of 64 Arbor St. and Andrea
Schnepf of 74 Highland St. Louise will inform the applicants of the decision and will prepare the chapter
liens for recording. Louise informed the Board that there are approximately 74 chapter accounts and to
date the office has received 62 applications back. Harald gave a brief description about the statutes and
qualifications regarding Chapter Land Classifications to the new members.
Matt and Louis stated that they both have completed the online training tutorial, Classification Workshop
as outlined by the DOR and received certification that they are qualified to classify properties and sign
documents. Louise has received the Certificates of Completion and stated that she forwarded the
Certificates to Kerry. Harald reminded them that as an assessor, they are required to complete Course
101, Assessment Administration: Law, Procedures, and Valuations within two years of election or
appointment. Louise will inform them when the course becomes available.
Harald was informed by the Board of Selectmen that they are planning to hold the hearing for
Classification of Properties at the Selectmen's' meeting on November 16, 2010. Harald explained to the
===PAGE 2===
Board that this hearing is held every year to discuss multiple tax rates for residential and commercial
properties. He explained that Lunenburg has chosen in the past to keep the tax rate the same for both.
Presently, commercial properties account for 20% of the total in properties. The Board expressed an
interest in attending this meeting.
The Board voted to change their regular meeting to November 16, 2010 at 6:00pm. Meeting adjourned at
7:05 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
