===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
are Iff me
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
FER 10 201
LUNT TING TOWN
CLERE OFFICE
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: September 14, 2010
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chris Comeau, Chairman; Board Member, Matthew J. Papini, Sr., Board Member, Louis J.
Franco Regional Assessor Harald Scheid and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessing Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved abatements, expense vouchers, commitments, warrants, payroll and
minutes from the meeting held on August 3rd
Harald informed the Board that the Town Manager has approved and signed the RRG contract which
began on 7/01/2010 - to be in effect for three years.
He did not have the contract available for the
Board to sign. Harald told the Board that Ashby is onboard and is waiting for the Chairperson to sign the
contract. Louise stated that she submitted the invoice to Ashby, has submitted the purchase requisitions
and has received the approved purchase orders. The process of submitting the actual invoices for July,
Aug & Sept. will be submitted upon receiving monies from Ashby and the receipt of a signed contract.
Louise reported that she had attended the Open Meeting Law & Conflict of Interest Forum on August 5'h
She explained the new law requirements regarding the notices and posting of meetings: the notices &
agenda's must be posted visible to the public at all hours in or on the municipal building and requires 48
hours in advance of meeting excluding Saturday, Sundays and legal holidays. Louise informed the Board
that all listing of topics that the chair reasonably anticipates will need to be included on the agenda to be
posted by Thursday, prior to the regular Tuesday evening's meeting. Louise will continue to e-mail the
agenda ahead of time for review. Louise also handed out copies of the materials that were available at
this forum.
Louise presented approx. 93 statutory exemption applications. She stated that there has been an
increase of applications requested this year; last year at this time there were 78. In September 2008,
there were 63 received & approved. The Board reviewed and approved 91 applications; totally
$51,410.00. Two applications were denied. Louise stated that only one deferral application (elderly
financial hardship) has been requested so far.
The Board reviewed and approved a FY 12 Chapter Forest Land Application (220 Kilburn St.) along with
• the Forest Management Plan for Kilburn Street Realty Trust; Peter E. Knox, and Trustee.
The property is
presently recorded as Chapter 61B/ Recreational Land. The Board signed the release of the Recreational
Lien and signed the Forest Land Tax Lien effective as of Jan. 1, 2011 for the Fiscal Year beginning July
1, 2011. Also reviewed and approved was the Amended Chapter 61A - Agricultural / Horticultural Land
Tax Lien for Padula / Lunenburg, LLC. Louise explained that there was a new deed recorded in this
"new" name on July 6, 2010. Presently, the properties located at 137 Leominster-Shirley Rd & 1501 Rear
Lancaster Ave. are recorded in the name of Alden J. Bianchi, Trust of Padula Shirley Road Realty Trust.
(same owner)
===PAGE 2===
Chapter land renewal applications were mailed on August 31 St
", (approx. 71) - to be returned by Oct. 1st.
Louise was informed today by Kerry that they received a letter from the DOR informing the Town that at
this time the community lacks a majority of qualified assessors to classify property. Louise stated that she
was not in receipt of this letter dated August 13, 2010. The basic training Course 101 will be offered in
October in Springfield during the daytime. The Board discussed the class and Matt & Louis do not feel
they could attend this at this time due to the time which it is offered. The option of completing the
computer based training tutorial, Classification of Workshop as outlined by the DOR was discussed
Matt & Louis agreed that at this time, they wish to complete this on-line Training & Seminar and will follow
through to receive the Certificate of Completion. Matt & Louis expressed that they will do this as soon as
possible. The completion of this "workshop" will qualify them to classify property and sign documents.
Harald told them they will still need to attend Course 101 and Louise will inform them when the course will
take place.
Regarding Overlay Releases: Harald spoke about the Municipal Relief Act and their recommendations
regarding the overlay accounts. He believes that "new" laws may change the process in the management
of the overlay accounts... monies may be set up in one account and not in separate years - awaiting on
decision from the DOR. Harald stated that he plans on attending the Municipal Law Seminar which will
take place this month.
Harald spoke about the process of assessment finalization and the tax rate schedule. He explained what
affects property values & assessments. Some of the topics covered where: new growth, additions, land
divisions, condos, building permits, etc. He stated that there has been a 5-6% decline in values in the
years of 2008-2009. Harald is ready to start the recap process and stated that he hopes all values should
be completed by Thanksgiving. He explained to the Board that every year the Special Town meeting
holds up setting the fiscal year tax rate.
Chris spoke about the money that has been allocated for the periodic inspections for Personal Property.
($15,000 was accepted and voted on at the May 2010 town meeting) • Harald stated that the next
certification will require a full audit by the DOR for PP inventory and will take place, he believes, within the
next year or two.
Recertification is every 9 years. For actual Billing in FY 10, there were 430 PP
accounts with a value of $22,985,525.00 - total taxes committed $326,394.39. Due to the lengthy process
of the maintenances of the PP accounts, Harald explained that some communities have voted at Town
Meeting to exempt up to a certain threshold e.g. $2,000 in value. This is something the Board will explore
at another time.
Harald spoke briefly on boat excise tax and suggested that this topic will need to be discussed at the next
meeting. Louise will add it to October's agenda..
The Board will meet on October 5, 2010 at 6:00pm. Meeting adjourned at 7:05 pm
Respectfully Submitted,
Laure Paguette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assessing Assistant
===PAGE 3===
Massachusetts Department of Revenue Division of Local Services
AUG 16 2010
SELECTMEN'S OFFICE
August 13, 2010
Board of Assessors
Town of Lunenburg
P. O. Box 135 17 Main Street
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Re: Warning - Not Qualified to Classify Property
The Division of Local Services' records indicate that your community lacks a majority of qualified assessors to
classify property. To establish an annual municipal tax rate the majority of the board of assessors must be
qualified to classify property. This minimum réquirement is established by MGL. 59 §2A (c) and is satisfied by
attendance at the Division's Classification Workshop.
The basic training course for assessors, Department of Revenue Course 101, includes the Classification
Workshop. The next Course 101 offered by the DOR will begin in October; comprising of one day per week for
three weeks and is planned for the Springfield area. If a board member cannot attend the Course 101, there is an
alternative teaching method available for the Classification Workshop portion only. Assessors have the option of
completing the computer based training tutorial, Classification Workshop for Windows, available for
downloading in the Training & Seminars section: at our website www.mass.gov/dls. Once completed, the
tutorial will instruct you to print out a certificate of completion in the "Print Me" file. This certificate must be
faxed to Debra Joyce at 617-660-7041.
If you believe our records are incorrect or if you have questions please call Debra at 508-792-7300, extension
22315. Failure of the majority of the board of assessors to be qualified to classify property will place your
municipality's tax rate setting process in jeopardy.
Sincerely yours,
marelipe. To. Brocese
Marilyn H. Browne, Chief
(00)
Bureau of Local Assessment
cc: Board of Selectmen
-DOR, Bureau of Accounts
Post Office Box 9569, Boston, MA 02114-9569, Tel: 617-626-2300; Fax: 617-626-2330
