===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Es the
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: January 5, 2010
The meeting opened at 6:30 pm.
Present: Chris Comeau - Chairman, Ernie Sund -
board Member; Harald Scheid - Regional Assessor, Louise Paquette- Administrative
Assessing Assistant.
Fred Liatsis - Board Member - unable to attend meeting
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants &
minutes.
Louise reported that the bills have been mailed for the Actual FY10 RE & PP. The
committed amount for Real Estate is $17,100,902.38 and Personal Property is
$326,394.39.
Two Elderly exemptions approved and granted totally $1,030.00. Louise informed the
Board that the two Veterans exemptions under Clause 22D which were already
approved for FY10 totaled $4,941.60. As of today, 169 exemptions have been granted
(which includes Tax Work-Off) totally $101,235.60. Louise reported that inquiries
regarding the submission of applications continue.
We are in receipt of 2 applications for Tax Deferrals (41A / Elderly Persons) - to be
reviewed at next months meeting. Louise has received few inquiries regarding the
Clause 18A / Temporary Special Hardship - one application close to being completed.
An update of the FY10 Assessors' Budget was received on 12/16/09. Louise informed
the Board that there is a reduction in the salaries for herself and Sheila. (Special Town
meeting voted to accept the article to impose a one week furlough to various Town
Departments) There was also a STM adjustment in the amount of $400.00 taken from
the original budget.
Applications are now available for abatements. Louise stated that she has given out
approx. 10 applications and has received many inquiries. The abatement filing
deadline is Monday, Feb. 1, 2010. Ernie addressed the need for more information in
how to field questions and complaints he has been personally receiving regarding
values of properties. Harald informed the Board that David has created a question &
answer sheet called "Things to Consider before Applying for a Real Estate Abatement"
which is available in the office and is available along with the applications on the
Town's website.
Harald informed the Board that we are in receipt of a letter from Cartographic
Associates willing to provide an updated maintenance proposal and contract in amount
of $1,000.00. This was in response to a letter Harald had sent in December to
negotiate a one-year contract amount of $1,000.00. Board reviewed and approved the
amended amount and directed Louise to send the contract out for approval to
Cartographics. The Contract is for processing data recorded during the time period of
July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010.
Board signed the Assessors Warrant & Commitment to the Collector and Town
===PAGE 2===
Accountant for the Apportioned Betterments & Special Assessments / Sewer & Water
for 1790 Massachusetts Ave - Gonynor Family Trust. (Meadow Woods Trailer Park)
Sewer Betterment Assessment is $3,540,081.07 and Water Assessment is
$2,385,601.50.
Harald demonstrated the "new" GIS (Global Informational System) software that was
recently installed by Cartographic Associates in December. This mapping tool uses
relational database technology to integrate data and has the capability to access many
sources of information from within one program. Harald gave a quick review how
efficiently it can generate an abutters list along with printing maps.
Louise spoke regarding Assessors' Scheduled Fees. The last time fees were reviewed
was in 2003. Louise researched various communities in the area and presented the fee
schedules. It was decided after some discussion that the topic be tabled at this time.
Board reviewed proposed Town Office Floor Plan which will be presented at the
Selectmen's meeting. It appears that on the plan the Assessors' Office will remain
where it is however the plan shows that the area will be enlarged due to the change in
the infrastructure of the bathrooms and taking down the wall. It appears that we may
gain another few feet of space. There was some discussion whether it would be
advantageous to request to move where the accountant presently is located. Louise
stated that this plan has not been finalized and when it is, it still needs to be
presented and accepted at Town Meeting.
Next meeting is slated for Tuesday, February 2nd at 5:30 pm. (Board voted to move
the meeting to 5:30 next month Meeting adjourned at 7:50 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lamine Paguette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assessing Assistant
