===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: October 4, 2011
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chris Comeau, Chairman; Board Member, Louis J. Franco, Regional Assessor Harald Scheid
and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Not present: Board Member, Matthew J. Papini, Sr.,
Board reviewed and approved abatements, expense vouchers, commitments, warrants, and minutes from
the meeting held on September 13, 2011
Louise presented approx. 19 statutory exemption applications. The Board reviewed and approved 18
applications totally $12,020.00 and one application was tabled for review at the next meeting. The
exemption application in question has an issue regarding the eligibility requirements and was from an
applicant who is personally known by the Chairman. Chris abstained from making a decision and a
motion was made to table the application until all members are present.
Harald presented to the Board three new Chapter Account applications for FY13. Board reviewed and
voted to approve the applications. They are as follows:
1. Annette Alatalo, Annette Alatalo, Trustee / 250 Howard St - Map 16, Parcel 12 - Chapter 61
Forest Land Classification - Forest Management Plan has been submitted and approved by the
State with a Plan Period of 2012-2021. Chris Comeau, Chairman signed the Certificate for
Chapter 61/61A Forest Lands and Louise will forward the Certificate to the State, one to the
applicant and one to be retained in the office.
2. Fairlane Homes Realty Trust, Peter Knox, Trustee / 318 New West Townsend Road - Map 35,
Parcel 17- Chapter 61B/ Recreational Land Classification
3. LeMac Realty Trust, Jerome Benson, Trustee / 260 Rear Massachusetts Ave - Map 74, Parcel 45-
Chapter 61B / Recreational Land Classification
The Land Classification Liens will be prepared and presented at next month's meeting. Louise reported
that all FY 13 applications were mailed on August 18, 2011 and a reminder notice will be mailed tomorrow
to approx. 12 property owners who have failed to return the application timely. Louise reported that there
are approximately 71 chapter accounts. The Board spoke on the application question regarding the
statement of income for gross sales from agricultural or horticultural use. The application indicates that a
statement of income for preceding year and supporting documentation, including copies of federal and
state tax income returns may be requested to verify the income. Harald explained that income
documentation / verification has been provided when an applicant initially enters into Chapter 61A but
documentation has not been requested for several years. The Board suggested that supporting
documentation verifying the applicants income be provided to the office next year for FY14.
===PAGE 2===
Harald provided an update regarding the Assessment Finalization and Tax Rate Setting schedule. He
stated that we are in "pretty good shape"
. He expects to hear from the Bureau of Local Assessment
sometime next week regarding the preliminary certification. Harald explained that once we have a
successtul completion of this preliminary review, we will be authorized to proceed with the public
disclosure process which is necessary in order to receive final certification. He expects this to be
sometime in the middle of the month.
The Board voted to meet on Tuesday, November 1, 2011 at 6:00pm. Meeting adjourned at 7:25 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lavise
Louise Raquette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
Gaguette
