===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
KH
Cheme.
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: August 2, 2011.
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Associate Assessor, David Manzullo, Chairman, Christopher Comeau, Board Member, Matthew
J. Papini, Sr., and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Louis Franco was unable to attend meeting.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, payroll & minutes.
Chairman appointment: Chris Comeau officially accepted the nomination which was voted on by the
members at the June meeting.
Louise reported that 50 Supplemental RE Bills for FY 11 for properties owned by Emerald Place
Development CO, LLC and Great Bridge Lunenburg, Inc were committed on 7/29/2011 totaling
$88,443.63.
Town Hall renovations continue. Renovations to the office will not begin until after the "new" bathrooms
are in place.
IT Director, Nancy Strom, informed the office that we will be receiving new computers sometime soon.
David stated that no upgrade should occur at this time due to this being a "reval" year with the State. He
strongly urged that this should wait until after the FY12 actual billing; the Board agreed.
David spoke regarding revaluations. He explained the Statistic report and gave a demonstration updating
the tables with the new costs. He stated that DOR guidelines require 20 sales in a given year, or the
report must include an additional year sales. The report showed the sales ratio to be 93.4%, which meets
State guidelines. The Board inquired about the frequency of property inspections. David stated that
every property is visited at least every 9 years.
At 6:30 pm, Mr. Blatt of 438 Lancaster Avenue met with the Assessors to question the proposed increase
to his property value. David explained that the property grade had been changed from good to very good
to better reflect the quality of his home. He stated the grade is a big driver; with each change in grade
potentially increasing building values by 15%. He explained that the State sets standards which dictate
how property grades are established. The overall grade ranges trom poor, tair, average, good, very
good, excellent and superior. Materials, construction (complexity of design) and overall condition of the
property affect the grade. Mr. Blatt responded that the property has not changed. David stated that the
property record was inaccurate not reflecting the true value of the property. After a lengthy discussion,
the Board offered several recommendations:
1. Property owner needs to set up an appointment to have the Assessors re-inspect the property (last
inspection was in 2007).
2. Property owner needs to check the square footage and compare it to the square footage listed on the
property record card.
3. Property owner should have a market analysis / appraisal of the home.
===PAGE 2===
Mr. Blatt requested that he receive a copy of the State standards that determine the overall grade of
properties. David will provide this to him.
In conclusion, Chris stated once again, that an inspection of the property will be needed before any
changes can be made to the overall grade / values. He reiterated that an inspection will show "us" first-
hand the quality, size, condition, materials, and grade of the property. Mr. Blatt was told to contact us
when he wishes to set up an appointment.
Discussion for the next meeting: The Board decided that the next meeting be held on Sept. 13 at 6pm
instead of the 6th.
(Due to the holiday) Louise will post meeting and send out reminder / an agenda to the
Board.
Meeting adjourned at 7:40 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lause taquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
To The Board of Assessors
