===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
K#
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: July 12, 2011.
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid, Board Members: Louis J. Franco, Matthew J. Papini, Sr., and
Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Chris Comeau was unable to attend meeting.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants & minutes.
Chairman appointment: tabled until the next meeting
Louise reported that the overlay ending balance for FY11 is $4,385.99. Abatements totaled $119,992.49
and in FY10 it was $ 114,078.97. Harald reviewed to the Board the meaning of recap and overlays and
that the "monies" remain under the control of the Assessors to cover any pending ATM decisions on
appeals that were filed.
Supplemental Bill commitment is being prepared for FY 11. Several properties (condos & apartments)
owned by Emerald Place Development CO, LLC and Great Bridge Lunenburg, Inc have been completed
and have received occupancy permits. Harald explained that the supplemental biils will be prorated from
the date of occupancy. Louise will prepare the bills in Munis and will be reviewed by the Tax Collector,
Jeff Ugalde.
Town Hall renovations continue. The Assessor Office will be the last to renovate. Louise reported that
she was able to encumber FY11 monies to be budgeted for office equipment.
Technology dept. informed the office that a "new" web-site is being created for the Town. Beth Caron
plans to get together with Louise / David for instruction and direction.
Harald explained to the Board that the DOR has mandated an audit for Personal Property / Businesses.
There is $15,000. "ear-marked " for this project. The proposal for bid will need to be set up by the
Selectmens' Office Harald stated that he has been handling the commercial accounts and David is close
to "wrapping" up revaluations for RE. Harald stated that the DOR is expected in the office on August 222d
to begin the audit process. He estimates 4-6 weeks for completion.
Harald gave a brief tutorial on the Regional Resource website for reviewing properties. He expressed to
the Board that he hopes that they become more "involved" or have a better understanding in the
assessment process. Matt & Lou hope to become more familiar and appeared very receptive to this.
Louise reported that here is a Special Town Meeting on the 18" at 7pm. Article is seeking approval of the
expenditures for the renovations of the DPW.
The next meeting is slated to be held on Tuesday, August 2, 2011 at 6:00pm. Lou shared that he may
not be able to attend due to pressing work commitments. Louise will send out notice of meeting and
agenda.
Meeting adjourned at 7:15pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lamine
Louise Paquette
Paquitte
Administrative Assistant
To The Board of Assessors
