===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
KIt
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 25 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: January 11, 2011
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm. Present: Chris Comeau - Chairman, Board Members
Matthew J. Papini, Sr., Louis J. Franco, Harald Scheid - Regional Assessor, and Louise
Paquette- Administrative Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants & minutes.
Louise reported that the bills have been mailed for the Actual FY 11 RE & PP. The committed
amount for Real Estate is $17,551,928.72 and Personal Property is $454,884.48. Louise also
reported that there were 4 omitted Real Estate bills totally an additional $55.628.79. The
commitment and warrant for these omitted bills were also reviewed and signed. An Omitted
& Revised Assessment Report will need to be submitted for this Fiscal 2011 year no later than
June 20th
Applications are now available for abatements. Louise stated that she has not received many
inquiries compared to former years. The abatement filing deadline is Tuesday, Feb. 1, 2011.
Harald informed the Board that David has created a question & answer sheet called "Things to
Consider before Applying for a Real Estate Abatement" which is available in the office and is
available along with the applications on the Town's website.
One Elderly 41C exemption and two Veteran exemptions were reviewed and approved totally
$1,550.00. The Board re-reviewed an application from an applicant who e-mailed Louise
contesting the denial of his exemption. The Board voted to uphold their previous decision
unless the applicant can provide the necessary supporting documentation as requested.
Louise reported that the applicants (jointly owned) are aware of the of the Boards' request.
Two applications (one former applicant & one new applicant) for Clause 41A Tax Deferrals
(Financial Hardship / Elderly Persons) were reviewed and approved upon. Louise will submit
the Statement of Entry into Tax Deferral and Recovery Agreement (State Tax Form 97-2/99-2)
to the Registry of Deeds for recording.
A proposed Memorandum of the FY12 Assessors' Budget was received on December 30, 2010.
Harald reported that he & Louise have reviewed the budget and stated that a meeting has
been set up with Kerry on the 24*
. The budget proposal comes in at about a 3.3% increase
over last year (due to salary & CAMA membership increases).
Harald spoke about the GIS (Global Informational System) software that will become
available to the public soon. It will be installed and maintained by Cartographic Associates,
Inc. Louise stated that the contract was signed on December 16, 2010. She reported that she
along with David and Nancy Strom (ITT) met with "Cartographics" to see a demonstration of
===PAGE 2===
the software program. This mapping tool uses relational database technology to integrate
data and has the capability to access many sources of information from within one program.
Harald spoke to the Board how efficiently it can generate an abutters list, create property
and topography maps and is capable of many other functions. A training session will be
offered to all departments once it is up and running.
Louise informed the Board that renovations have been started in the Town Hall (monies were
approved at the Special Town Meeting held in December). It appears that the plan shows the
Assessors' Office to remain where it is, however, the plan shows that the area will be
enlarged due to the change in the infrastructure of the bathrooms and taking down the wall.
We will gain another few feet of space. Louise stated that she was told that we probably will
be the last office renovated.
Louise informed the Board that the Courses 101 will be offered in the spring in Natick
beginning April 7' through May 12'h
". Matt & Lou stated that they are interested in attending
this program. Louise informed them that there is possibly some money available for mileage.
Registration will open in late February with the DOR.
Assessors' Notice regarding Taxation of Personal Property was signed by the Board tonight and
Louise will post notice in three places in Town.
Next meeting is slated for Tuesday, February 1s at 6:00 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 7:00 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Larsi Paquitte
Louise Raguette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
