===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
MPOR
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: June 7, 2011.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 25 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The meeting opened at 6:20 pm. (Meeting time delayed due to lack of quorum)
Present: Board Members: Louis J. Franco, Matthew J. Papini, Sr., and Louise Paquette, Administrative
Assistant. (Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid and Chairman Chris Comeau unable to attend meeting)
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants & minutes
Discussion regarding the Chairman appointment: Matt Papini made a motion to nominate Chris Comeau
to serve as Chairman of the Board, seconded by Louis Franco. Louise stated that she will inform Chris of
the nomination and the appointment will need to be tabled until the next meeting.
Board reviewed and approved a PP abatement application. Abatement was necessary due to an
administrative error. Louise will send out certificate to business owner informing them of the Boards'
decision.
Board reviewed and signed a Chapter 61 A / Agricultural Land Tax Lien release to be recorded for
property at 146 Elmwood Road, previously owned by Irene Proctor. The property has been out of
Chapter for the last 5-6 years.
Louise reported that the billing process for FY12 Preliminary RE bills has been completed. The 4865 bills
total $9,202,338.56. The file has been given to the Tax Collector, Jeffrey Upgalde for review and will be
• sent to the 35ª party biller, Mark Altman & Associates.
Board Members, Matt & Louis stated that they have completed and received certification of completion of
Courses101: Assessment Administration: Law, Procedures, and Valuation. The course was conducted by
the Division of Local Services which was held in Natick at the Moore Institute Library. Louise suggested
that they send a copy of the Certificate for filing.
Contract renewals: Louise explained that Harald Scheid's contract for the Regional Resource Group had
been renewed last year and it is a three year contract. Cartographic Associates Inc. (whom handles the
mapping for the office) contract will expire the end of June. As in the past, Cartographic Assoc. will send
a renewal of their contract for review in the fall.
Board discussed the next meeting date and a motion was made and seconded to postpone the July 5"h
meeting. The next meeting is slated to be held on Tuesday, July 12, 2011 at 6:00pm.
Meeting adjourned at 7:06pm.
Respectfully Submitted
Louise Paquette
Jarre paguitte
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
