===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
ame me se
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: March 1, 2011.
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 25 2011
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Board Members: Chris Comeau, Chairman, Members: Louis J. Franco & Matthew J.
Papini, Sr., David Manzello, Associate Assessor, and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, payroll &
minutes.
Prior to the Board reviewing abatement applications, Mr. Bowen attended the meeting on behalf
of The Lake Shirley Improvement Corp. He spoke on the abatement application and to answer
questions that the Board may have. He gave a history of the ownership of the property and
nformed the Board about the past decision (May 2003) of the Zoning Board declaring the
property "unbuildable". The property owners challenged the decision and went before Land Court
a few years ago. Land Court voted to uphold the decision of the Zoning Board. Mr. Bowen went
on to show comparisons of several properties and their values that are deemed "non-buildable".
Board was satisfied with the supports and documentation and voted to approve the abatement.
David presented 8 applications this evening to the Board and the Board reviewed and voted on
the following abatement applications:
Real Estate - 3 APPROVED
757 Flat Hill Road
2 Oakridge Road
511 Reservoir Road
| 123-027
135-050
127-002
Clerie
Real Estate - 4 DENIED
894 N. West Townsend Road
322 Northfield Road
548 Northfield Road
43 Goodrich Street
005-002
040-023
039-039
111-023
Personal Property - 1 APPROVED
New Cingular Wireless OCS, LLC / PP # 282 / Account # 1024
===PAGE 2===
David mentioned that there are three remaining abatement applications and that more information
needs to be collected concerning the applications. The Board agreed to put them on hold until
next month's meeting.
Louise spoke regarding the renovations of the Town Hall. Town Manager had sent an e-mail
regarding the status of the renovations and feels that the project is taking a bit longer than
anticipated but the results are better than expected. Louise reported that the Assessors' and the
Town Clerk's Office will be the last offices to renovate.
David demonstrated the new on-line mapping GIS available through Cartographic Associates,
Inc. that is now available to the general public on the Towns' web page. David had a
demonstration training session at the Library which was held on 2/28. All those departments in
attendance were very interested and pleased to see we all have the capability to access this
information. Selectman, Ernie Sund stopped by and was very pleased to hear the GIS is up and
running. He invited Chairman Chris Comeau to attend the Selectmen's meeting that evening to
share with the general public the news of the Town's webpage on-line mapping program. Chris
was glad to do a quick announcement.
Louise reported the following information regarding Course 101:
The Department of Revenue's basic course for assessors, Course 101, Assessment
Administration: Law, Procedures, Valuation, will be offered at the Morse Institute Library located
at 14 East Central Street, Natick MA. This training will be held weekly on Thursdays from April 7th
through May 12th. It will be held in the early evening from 4 PM to 7 PM. The training consists of
6 sessions. Participants must attend five out of six sessions to meet the attendance requirements
for the examination. Pre-registration is required, walk-in registrations will not be accepted. The
deadline to register is Friday, March 18h. Matt has registered and Louise will fax Louis's
registration form tomorrow.
Next meeting is slated for Tuesday, April 5th at 6:00 pm. Meeting adjourned at 7:40 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lause
Louise Paquette
Paquitte
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
... . .
