===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
One sh Mt
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
JUL 18 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: April 3, 2012
CLERK OFFICE
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chairman, Chris Comeau, Board Members, Matthew Papini,
Sr., Louis Franco, Harald Scheid, Regional Assessor and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved minutes, current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants,
commitments, & payroll.
Jane Rose (DEP), Alexander Turner and Mr. Turner (husband of Alexander) appeared before the Board
representing The Lancaster Land Trust, Inc., (property address: 0 Rear Kaleva Road-Map 49, Parcel 2)
to speak on their abatement application and the possibility of receiving a charitable exemption. They
explained to the Board that the Lancaster Land Trust is not a governmental agency, but a private
nonprofit corporation chartered by the Commonwealth. They reported that they are a group of citizens
concerned with preserving the town's scenic vistas and open space for outdoor recreation and wildlife
habitat, while protecting the rural character. They explained that the Trusts holds conservation
restrictions and are open and accessible to the public for passive recreation. They shared with the
Board a pamphlet entitled: "Lancaster Land Trust /Our Mission" and also gave the Board handout which
they offer to the public entitled, "Geology Field Trip to Turner Pond Conservation Land". Chris
reminded them and the Board that the Lancaster Land Trust property is already being recognized and
granted a tax relief as a Chapter 61 B / Recreational Land. General discussion continued of what
determines "Land Trusts" as charitable organizations. Harald stated that he services many communities
and among these communities, approx. three quarters do recognized these "trusts" as charitable
organizations. Harald continued to say that the property must have a conservation restriction and be
recorded as such. The Board concurred that proof of this conservation restriction is necessary before
they make a decision on the abatement. They agreed to table the abatement application until receipt
of the documentation. Louise will send a letter to the applicant reminding them of this and will also
inform them of the Boards' request for an extension before acting on the application.
It was brought
to the attention to the applicant that a State tax Form ABC application was not received in this office,
which should have been filed by March 1st for a FY13 tax exemption. Chris reminded them that if an
organization does not file timely along with the complete return, it is not exempt from taxation for the
year.
Harald presented 5 State Tax Form ABC applications (8 properties) received timely (prior to March 1st).
The Board reviewed and voted unanimously in favor of granting 4 exemptions on the following
properties:
1. 10 School St. / Map 71- Parcel 77
2. 194 Electric Ave. / Map 77- Parcel 78
3. 308 West St. / Map 78 - Parcel 18
4. 439 Main St. / Map 60 - Parcel 7 ( Granted at 50% )
Board denied the following property exemptions:
1. 194 Electric Ave. - Map 77 - Parcel 14
2. 101 Pleasant St. / Map 95 - Parcel 3
3. 67 West St. Terrace - Map 96 - Parcel 19 (Chris reported that this property has been vacated)
A new application for exemption was received on 3/01/2012 for the property located at 463 West
Townsend Road - Map 8 - Parcel 1. Application submitted by Lessee, not owner. The Board will review
===PAGE 2===
and vote upon this application at the next meeting. Harald suggested that notifications to the
applicants be mailed once the Board has completed reviewing and voting on all the applications.
At 7:40 pm, Yvon Boucher of 362 Burrage St. appeared before the Board of Assessors as follow-up on his
application regarding his abatement. David had prepared a list of comparisons and Harald and the
Board explained the process which is utilized in the assessments of properties. After reviewing this
information and receiving a full explanation, he stated that he was satisfied with the report and the
findings on his property values.
Board reviewed and denied the following RE abatement applications:
• 362 Burrage St.
• 342 Burrage St.
• 548 Northfield Rd.
• 460 Howard St. ( Filed untimely)
• 390 Howard St. (Filed untimely)
Louise reported on the overlay funds for FY12. Presently, 156 Statutory Exemptions were granted
totally $92,568.27; 16 Real Estate Abatements totally $9,721.02; 17 Personal Property Abatements
totally $1,067.36 and 13 Tax Work-Off Program totally $8,766.00. Totals to date are $112,122.65.
Louise stated last year at this time, abatements totaled approximately $119,987.37.
Louise reminded the Board that the Town Meeting will be held May 5t* and the election to be held on
May 19th
". Chris reported that he will be running for election again; he received the Caucus Nomination.
Harald reported that David is working on new construction values to prepare for the Supplemental
Billing for FY12. He explained that the Commonwealth of MA requires the Board of Assessors to tax
new structures at full valuation upon issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy. He explained that
properties undergoing significant improvements in which the resulting value increases by 50 percent or
more are also subject to immediate taxation upon completion.
The taxpayers will be receiving
notification explaining the original building valuation and the revised valuation. The notification will
also indicate the added valuation, the tax rate, the added tax, the occupancy issue date, the days of
occupancy, and the prorated supplemental tax due. Louise reported that these letters will be mailed
within the next few days.
Louise spoke regarding the preliminary billing calendar. Harald stated the billing file will be completed
in May and Louise has projected the date of June 14* to have the process completed in Munis and sent
to the Collectors Office for review. Louise will contact the Accountant to make sure all the charges and
codes for FY13 are in place.
Harald gave an update regarding the Personal Property project. He stated that his company is creating
various templates in order to provide an inventory checklist specific to the taxpayers business. He also
informed to the Board that before he can begin the Personal Property Assessments, (mandated by the
State) the Town will need to solicit price quotes from qualified firms. He will get in touch with the
Town Manager regarding the process. In the meantime, he proposes to prepare a bid for the project
which he will have available at the next meeting.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, May 1st at 6 pm.
Meeting adjourned 8:10 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lause Taquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
===PAGE 3===
ORGANIZATION
The Lancaster Land Trust is not a govern-
mental agency, but a private nonprofit
corporation chartered by the Common-
wealth. The Trust has received grants from
the USDA Forest Legacy Program, Greater
Worcester Community Foundation, and the
Massachusetts Cultural Council via the
Lancaster Cultural Council.
All gifts from corporations and private
individuals are tax deductible under IRS
Code 501(c)(3). You can reach us at
Lancaster Land Trust
PO Box 626
Lancaster, MA 01523-0626
Tel. (978) 368-7747
AFFILIATIONS
The Trust is a member of the Massachusetts
Land Trust Coalition and of the Land Trust
Alliance, an association of land trusts organ-
ized across America.
The Trust cooperates with The Trustees of
Reservations, the Friends of the Oxbow
National Wildlife Refuge, the Nashua River •
Watershed Association, and other regional
land trusts and environmental groups to
protect larger parcels of land and to sponsor
outdoor education programs.
CONSERVATION AREAS
Ballard Hill Conservation Area-This
33.4-acre parcel has frontage on Rte 117 on
Ballard Hill where the power lines cross the
road. Parking is to the left of 2273 Main
Street. Hikers can either walk under the
power lines down to land owned by the
Conservation Commission or follow the cart
road left of the power lines through the
Trust's land. Both paths lead to the North
Branch of the Nashua River, across from
about 600 acres of protected open space.
Turner Pond Conservation Area--This
38-acre parcel was donated to the Trust by
the Turner Pond/Turner Heights subdivision.
Parking is at the end of the Brian Road cul-
de-sac off Kaleva Road. A woods road runs
through the property to connect the two
subdivisions. Turner Pond is a glacial kettle-
hole with a spruce bog at its north end:
Public Access Regulations-Hiking,
hunting, fishing, cross country skiing and
mountain biking (but no motorized vehicles)
are encouraged on both Trust properties;
both are open daily from sunrise to sunset.
TRUST PROGRAMS
Besides buying and holding land for long-
term protection, the Lancaster Land Trust
sponsors the town's annual spring Cleanup
Weekend and Candidates Night each April.
In late summer, the Trust organizes the
Nashua River Cleanup Day. The Trust also
works with public and private schools on
outdoor educațional activities and regularly
leads instructed nature walks.
TAX BENEFITS OF OPEN SPACE
Land in open space protection benefits tax-
payers by curbing the town's expenses for
road maintenance and snow removal, for fire
and police protection, and for public school
construction and staffing. And, according to
the National Association of Home Builders,
conservation land enhances the value and tax
assessment of surrounding houses by 20%:
Lancaster Land Trust
===PAGE 4===
Lancaster Land Trust
OUR MISSION
The Lancaster Land Trust was
incorporated in 1997 by a group of
citizens concerned with preserving the
town's scenic vistas and open space
for outdoor recreation and wildlife
habitat, and with protecting the rural
character of the town.
Through purchases and conservation
restrictions, the Trust works with the
town and with individual landowners
to protect strategic parcels of land
identified in the current Lancaster
Open Space and Recreation Plan.
Parcels owned by the Lancaster Land
Trust, as well as private land on
which the Trust holds conservation
restrictions, are open and accessible to
the public for passive recreation.
979 xog, Od
Lancaster Land Trust
Indicate whether new or renewing
member
I want to help preserve the rural character of Lancaster through open space conservation. Here is my check for
nempersnip in the Lancaster Land Trust, PO Box 626, Lancaster, MA 01523 through next June. 1 understan
that my gift is tax deductible and that a gift of $10 or more entitles me to attend scheduled Trustees meetings and
to vote, or be a candidate, in the Annual Member Meeting for the election of Trustees generally held in September.
$10
$25
$50
$100
$200
$500
$.
Other (land, securities, etc.):
I wish to volunteer my services in one of the Trust's programs:
Membership & Finance
Land Acquisition
Name
Address
_Valued at $
Property Management
Public Relations
*. .
Phone: (
My company matches my gifts to charitable organizations; the matching-gift application form is enclosed with my donation.
