===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
AR J44.
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
RECEIVED & FILED
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: June 5, 2012
JAN 09 2013
LIVER RETOWN
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chairman, Chris Comeau, Board Members, Louis Franco,
Matthew Papini, Sr.,
Harald Scheid, Regional Assessor and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant
Board reviewed and approved minutes, current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants,
commitments, & payroll.
Chairman Election: A motion was made by Matt and seconded by Lou to appoint Chris as Chairman of
the Board. Chris accepted the position and thanked them for their support.
Lou Franco spoke regarding Article 20 as follows:
"To see if the Town will vote to accept Chapter 59, Section 5, Clause 54 of the General Laws of
Massachusetts establishing a minimum fair cash value of $2,500.00 for the personal property
accounts to be taxed, or pass any vote or votes in relation thereto."
He stated that the Article passed and he spoke on the article at Town Meeting on May 5th. He felt that
the article may have been tabled but once he spoke a vote was taken and unanimously passed.
Louise gave a brief update on the status of the FY13 preliminary billing. Spoke of the Munis training
session she recently attended on May 21s along with Acting Tax Collector, Laura Williams. She stated
that the training was geared towards the next version of Munis 9.1 which is tentatively scheduled to be
installed this summer. Also spoke regarding bill provider, Billtrust, formerly Mark Altman Associates,
Inc. Reported that we are undergoing changes in the bill process setup and the Collectors Office is
handling the revisions. Louise stated that she was requested by Laura to sit-in on a web training
program presented by Billtrust. Louise plans to have the process completed and the bills turned over to
the Collectors' Office by June 15th
Harald gave an update regarding the Personal Property Assessment project. He reported that the Town
Manager is in receipt of his proposal agreement and as Procurement Officer she will be getting bids.
He stated that has not heard from her.
Harald reported that the office is in receipt of a certified letter from The Institute of Professional
Practice, Inc. dated May 17, 2012 appealing the decision of denial on the ABC application for 67 West
St. Terrace. In the letter, they stated that despite the short period of vacancy due to the particular
needs of the residents they continue to operate as a 501 (c) (3) non-profit corporation and request an
extension of the property tax exemption that was previously granted. The Board discussed the letter
and reviewed the DOR's fact sheet, Taxpayers Guide to Local Property Exemptions and the
qualification date guidelines. It states that exempt status for real estate is determined as of July 1,
which is the beginning of the municipal fiscal year. After discussion, the Board voted to review the
property again as of July 1st to see if the property is still vacant.
===PAGE 2===
Louise stated that the Board Members will need to come in for signatures prior to the end of the month
for the Prelim FY13 Commitment & Warrant and other docs that may require a signature.
Chris suggested that we do not schedule a meeting for July 3rd. The Board voted to schedule a
tentative date of July 10* at 6pm. Louise stated that she will be on vacation but will post the meeting
before she leaves.
Meeting adjourned at 7:03 pm.
Louise Paquette
Lamn Faguette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CERK OFFICE
