===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: August 7, 2012
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chairman, Chris Comeau, Board Members, Louis Franco,
Matthew Papini, Sr., Harald Scheid, Regional Assessor and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved minutes, current expense vouchers, abatements, & payroll.
Louise reported that the exemption applications will be mailed within the next couple of weeks.
Louise reported that the FY14 Chapter Account Applications will be mailed this week. She reminded
the Board that on the meeting held October 4, 2011, the Board suggested that supporting
documentation verifying the (61A) applicants' income be provided along with the Chapter application.
Louise reported that she has received phone calls with criticism that some property owners are not
actively engaged in farming, yet receiving tax subsidies. Harald spoke regarding income requirements
to qualify for 61 A Chapter Land classification. For a property to remain in Chapter 61A, agricultural
land must produce income of at least $500.00 for the initial 5 acres, and $5.00 for each additional
acre. Property must be "actively devoted" to agricultural or horticultural use to retain classification.
Agricultural or horticultural use includes land used primarily and directly to raise animals or products
derived from animals, or to grow food for human consumption, tobacco, flowers, plants, shrubs or
forest products. He explained that under 61A forest management may continue to receive
classification assuming that they are actively managing their land consistent with a certified plan. The
Board voted to have Harald compose a letter to the 61A Chapter property owners informing them that
commencing with next year's application 10/1/2013 filing, they will be required to submit a copy of
the 2012 IRS ( Schedule F) as evidence of their farm income. Harald stated that he will compose a
letter stating the new filing requirements and Louise will have them ready to be mailed along with the
Chapter 61A application.
Periodicals / Personal Property Project - Louise met with Kerry regarding the status of the bids for
proposal. Louise reported Kerry had solicited bids via an email on July 25, 2012 with a deadline of
August 3, 2012. Requests were sent to: Patriot Properties; Regional Resource Group; RRC; and Vision
Government Solutions. Kerry explained to Louise that we are required by MGL to obtain written
quotes for services procured between $5,000 - $15,000, and the project can only be awarded to a
vendor that supplies a written quote with the specified timeframe. Also, the Town may also choose
not to award a contract at this time or re-solicit bids. Kerry received only one bid in response from
RRC. Harald stated that he did not bid on the proposal because he felt that he would not be able to
complete the project within the specified 90 day timeframe. The Board reviewed the proposal and it
was discovered the proposal had incorrect amount of PP accounts and the bid received was based on
264 accounts; whereas there are approx. 485 accounts on record. The Board stated that the proposal
will need to be re-solicited using the approx. amount of accounts and a new timeframe will need to be
discussed once again with Kerry. Harald stated that he has a plan to facilitate the mailing of forms of
list and data entry for this fiscal year.
Harald tabled "Omitted Bills"
... is not an issue at this time for preliminary billing.
Harald spoke on the current assessment rate. Appears property values are good but stated that the
waterfront properties appear low; presently coming in at approx. 85% ratio and sales are showing
approx. 90%. Vacate land sales presently appear slightly overvalued. Reported that there were 55 valid
===PAGE 2===
sales of single family home in 2011.
Louis presented a letter he drafted to Kerry on behalf of the Board regarding the change in office
hours. The Board stated they would like to maintain the hours which were in operation since 2007.
(See at Mahe reviewed and approved the letter and would like it sent to kerry as soon as possible.
The Board reviewed the calendar for the next meeting and voted to meet on Tuesday, September 11,
2012 at 6pm.
Meeting adjourned at 7:20 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Lauri (raguette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 3===
Town of Lunenburg
Office of the Board of Assessors
PO Box 135 Lunenburg, MA 01462
978-582-414:
hristopher Comeau, Chairmal
Matthew J. Papini, Sr., Membe
Louis J. Franco, Member
Harald M. Scheid, Regional Tax Assessor
David Manzello, Associate Assessor
Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor
Sheila Craigen, Assessing Clerk
August 8, 2012
Dear Kerry,
We write in reply to your Memorandum of 19 June 2012 concerning Town Hall's
revised hours. We are fully cognizant that, for most departments, the revised
hours represent a reduction from 10 to 36 hours per week. However, as Louise
Paquette previously reported, the Board of Assessors has since 2007
successfully operated on
a weekly schedule covering 34.5 hours. Accordingly,
implementation of the revised Town Hall schedule by the Board of Assessors
would represent an increase of 1.5 operating hours per week.
In light of the fact that Town government currently regards as a prime
objective the reduction of operating expenses, the Board of Assessors
unanimously requests that you reconsider the weekly operating schedule as it
pertains to the Board of Assessors public office hours. As a Board, we have
discussed and noted that
our operation on a schedule of 34.5 hours per week
has in no way negatively impacted the public or interfered with this office's
ability to satisfy state
and town obligations.
Although the number of hours worked by each employee within the Assessor's
Office would not change by increasing office hours to 36 per week, the
revised schedule would nevertheless increase overall operating expenses
because lights, heat, air conditioning, computers, etc. would remain running
for 1.5 additional hours (4.3%). In these times of tight budgeting, no
opportunity for cost savings can be disregarded. As long as the Assessors
Office continues to meet the needs of the public on its long-standing weekly
sch dunnon 31.5 wei can ning A openion to espect way de restrate.
you reconsider your previous instructions and advise us of your decision as
soon as possible.
We greatly appreciate your consideration.
RECEIVED & FILED
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Board,
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CERE OFFICE
Louis J. Franco
Christopher Comeau
Matthew Papini, Sr.
