===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
:
KH
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: July 17, 2012
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Board Members, Louis Franco, Matthew Papini, Sr. and
Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved minutes, current expense vouchers, abatements, & payroll.
Louise reported that the FY13 Preliminary RE Bills were mailed by Billtrust on 6/26/2012. Total
amount of commitment for FY 13 is $9,525,410.46.
Louise presented a report from the Bureau of Local Assessment / Division of Local Services which states
that: In accordance with the provisions of General Laws Chapter 59, Section 75, the Board of Assessors
submits the following report on the omitted and revised assessments made for the fiscal year". Board
reviewed and signed the Omitted & Revised Assessment Report for FY12. The Omitted Assessments for
FY2012 was a total of additional taxes committed in the amount of $5,015.34, Revised Assessments
total for additional taxes committed was $1,459.16 and Roll Back taxes collected were in the amount
of $11,207.59.
Spoke briefly on the personal property project. Louise stated that she has not heard from Kerry
regarding the bids for proposal.
Louise reported that in reviewing and consulting with Harald regarding the Classified Forest Land Tax
Lien for 22 Harbor Terrace, Map 42, Pg. 44 (which was approved at last month's meeting), there was an
omission of a parcel on the Forest Management Plan and on the Certificate for the Dept. of
Conservation & Recreation. After consulting with Harald, it was determined that once the corrected
plan and application is returned (prior to 10/1/2012) the classification of the land as forest land will be
effective as of January 1, 2013 for the fiscal year beginning July 1, 2013. (FY14) The application and
Lien will then be presented to the Board again for review and acceptance. Louise spoke with the
applicant and he understood the omission and will return the plan to the State Forester for correction.
The Board reviewed the letter of appeal from the institute of Professional Practice, Inc. regarding the
denial of the ABC application for 67 West St. Terrace. It was determined at last month's meeting that
the deals as of dyed Lobes reported that chris earned heroil the in
individuals as of July 1sc
, that he observed that the
property was still vacated. The Board voted to maintain their decision of denial because they do not
meet the eligibility requirements in regards to the July 1s* qualification date determined by DOR.
Louise will inform Harald that a letter will need to be prepared to notify them of the Boards' decision.
Louise presented a letter from the United Parish of Lunenburg dated June 28, 2012. The letter states
that they are requesting that the property be granted a full tax exemption, not 50% exemption that
was granted by the Board in May. They stated in the letter that the tenant, the Bonjour School will be
relocating their business as of July 1st and no longer will be operating their business at 39 Main St. The
Board reviewed this information and established that the Bonjour School in fact has relocated their
business to 742 Massachusetts Ave. The property was purchased on 1/9/2012 by GQC Realty ( Linda
Smith / DBA BONJOUR NURSERY) Louise stated that the business appears to be operating and signs
have been erected displaying the business. The Board voted to rescind their former vote of 50%
===PAGE 2===
exemption and voted to grant the full exemption for FY13. Board would like Harald to follow up with a
letter of approval and has requested that they wish to be informed by the United Parish if they decide
to lease that space to any other tenant during the year.
Office Hours: Louise informed the Board of the notification she received on June 14th from the Town
Manager regarding the Change of Town Hall Office hours which will be in effect starting July 1st.
The Office Hours schedule is: Mon. & Wed.
8:00am - 4:00 pm
Tues. & Thurs.
8:00am - 6:00 pm
Louise explained to the Board that our office has been open 34.5 hrs. per wk. since May, 2007 and now
the office hours have been increased to 36 hrs. Louise also stated that she received a Memorandum on
6/19/2012 from Town Manager informing her that the weekly schedule will need to be adjusted to
keep the office open during the revised hours of Town Hall. She also requested that Louise provide a
schedule showing the hours to be worked by office staff to provide coverage.
The Board expressed the need for clarification of why the office would need to increase the amount of
time to be opened to the public. Lou stated that he could understand the insistence of reducing the
hours of Town Hall and that the Town Managers' efforts are centered on lowering costs by cutting back
Town Office hours to 36 hrs. However, he could not understand the reason in increasing the Assessors'
office by 1.5 hours per week. Stated that it would in fact increase the costs of operation for the
office and not help in the Town Manager's' achievement of reduced expenses. Matt stated that he has
not heard any public outcry pertaining to a lack of coverage and that there are no issues in completing
our state & town obligations. After this discussion, they voted to contact the Town Manager with their
concerns.
Louise explained the current schedule and concerns regarding the new schedule. She stated that now
there are two evenings (Tues. & Thurs.) that will need coverage and presently she works a 10 - 11 hr.
day on Tuesdays. She explained that the other staff member has expressed difficulty in committing to
provide Thursday evening coverage. Louise stated that presently, Principal Clerk Sheila is not available
to open the office and works 11am - 4 pm on Thursdays. After discussion of trying to make a favorable
schedule, the Board voted that the only fair way to cover the hours is to split Tuesday and Thursday's
evenings between Louise & and the Principal Clerk, Sheila. The decision was made that Louise continue
to work her full day of 8am - 6pm on Tuesdays and Sheila will work from 1pm - 6pm on Thursdays.
They expressed that is fair and equitable for both people. The Board will inform Chris, Harald, and
Sheila of their decision and Louise stated that she felt a discussion with Sheila and Harald would be
appropriate before providing the schedule to the Town Manager.
The Board reviewed the calendar for the next meeting and voted to meet on Tuesday, August 7, 2012
at 6pm. Louise stated that this date was acceptable for Chris as well.
Meeting adjourned at 7:15 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lause
Eaguette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
TO RECEIVEDS FILED
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
