===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: October 2, 2012
The meeting opened at 6:05 pm.
Present: Board Members: Louis Franco and Matt Papini Sr., Harald
Scheid, Regional Assessor and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Chris Comeau, Chairman of
the Board, not present.
Board reviewed and approved minutes, current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments
& payroll.
Louise presented (18) Property Tax Exemption applications. The Board reviewed and voted to approve
all 18 applications totaling $11,293.00.
Harald spoke of the release of Chapter 61 A for 1281 & 1255 Lancaster Avenue. Harald reported that a
roll back tax in the amount of $1,384.28 is to be collected for tax years 2008 through 2012.
The Board
reviewed and signed the release of the Classified Agricultural Land Tax Lien. Louise stated the lien
release will be recorded when the Tax Collector reports that payment has been made and the $75.00
fee has been collected for the recording fee.
Harald gave an update of the current Chapter accounts. Louise reported to the Board that the
application deadline was yesterday and there are still (15) applications to be returned. The Board
recommended that a final notice be mailed to the Property Owners informing them that in order to
continue to have the property remain in classification, the application along with the financial supports
must be received in the office by October 18t. After much discussion regarding the Boards' philosophy
of the application process, Lou stated that next year all applicants must understand that property
cannot be classified as agricultural, horticultural, or recreational land under Chapter 61A / B if the
applicant does not comply with the application deadline and procedures by October 1st
. Matt concurred
and stated that the date of October 1 will be the absolute deadline for filing the chapter application
however, he would be agreeable in allowing any missing supports within two weeks. Louise will mail a
final notice this week. The Board voted to table all the FY14 applications received and will review
them at the next meeting.
Lou reported that he received an email today from the Town Manager regarding the letter which was
sent by the Board regarding the change of office hours. Lou stated that the Town Manager is upholding
the current hours; wishes to have all the office hours consistent.
Harald reported that he has spoken with the Town Manager regarding the Personal Property project.
He stated that it had been agreed upon that the "bids for proposal" will be held off for the time being.
Concentration will be spent on this year's FY13 values for personal property and the end of the year
completion of the tax setting process.
Harald provided an update regarding the Assessment Finalization and Tax Rate Setting schedule.
Harald shared with the BOA information regarding a proposed "Legislature bill" regarding funding of a
state -wide regionalization plan for regional assessing. He stated that the Dept. of Revenue contacted
RRG in the possibility of "spearheading" a "pilot" assessing regionalization plan in Central MA and that
he has been in discussion with them. He expressed that more information will be forthcoming in the
===PAGE 2===
few months. He stated that he has a meeting scheduled with the DOR at the end of November. He
also expressed that he plans to have David in attendance at next month's meeting.
Board voted to have the next meeting on Tuesday, November 13, 2012 at 6pm.
Meeting adjourned at 7:55 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
are Taquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
