===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
KH
Are st
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: May 1, 2012
RECEIVED & FILED
. 'UL 18 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chairman, Chris Comeau, Board Member, Louis Franco,
Harald Scheid, Regional Assessor and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Board Member,
Matthew Papini, Sr. not present.
Board reviewed and approved minutes, current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants,
commitments, & payroll.
Harald reported that The Lancaster Land Trust, Inc. has submitted documentation (as requested by the
Board at the last meeting) supporting that they are in fact have conservation restrictions recorded at
the Registry of Deeds for their property at 0 Kaleva Road - Map 49, Parcel 2. The Board reviewed the
documentation and voted to approve the abatement application by recognizing that the land is
encumbered by a conservation restriction and should be valued at Lunenburg's undevelopable land
rate. The value of the land was further discount Chapter 61B - Recreation Land exemption. Louise will
send out notifications to the owner.
An abatement application for property located at 134 Leominster/Shirley Rd. - Map 146, Parcel 26 was
deemed denied. The application was filed after the statutory deadline of February 1st. Assessors' can
take no action with respect to the Fiscal year 2012 valuation.
Louise reminded the Board that the Town Meeting will be held this Saturday, May 5t* and the election
to be held on May 19th
". Harald reported that has been asked to attend tonight's BOS meeting to speak
on Article 20. Article reads as follows:
"To see if the Town will vote to accept Chapter 59, Section 5, Clause 54 of the General Laws of
Massachusetts establishing a minimum fair cash value of $2,500.00 for the personal property
accounts to be taxed, or pass any vote or votes in relation thereto."
Harald presented an ABC application (Charitable Exemptions) which was on hold for further review &
decision. The new application for exemption was received on 3/01/2012 for the property located at
463 West Townsend Road - Map 8 - Parcel 1. Application submitted by Lessee, not owner. The Board
reviewed application and voted to deny application due to the fact that the applicant is not the
property owner. Harald will prepare the notifications to the applicants to be mailed within the next
week.
Louise reported that she has electronically submitted the final FY 2012 Statutory Exemption report to
report will be given to the accountant.
Harald gave an update regarding the Personal Property Assessment project. He reported that a data
base has been developed by RRG that will facilitate the organization of businesses according to
categories which then will create a recording form appropriate to record the inventory for the
individual type of business. This will be mailed to each individual business along with the application
and Form of List. He presented a Personal Property Contract proposal agreement (one for the Town
Manager and one for RRG) with a quote for Personal Property Assessment Services from RRG. The
===PAGE 2===
Board reviewed, voted and signed the (2) documents in agreement of the proposal. Louise will submit
documents to the Town Manager for review. Upon approval, the document will need be certified by
the Town Accountant.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, June 5th at 6 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 7:45 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lausi Taquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
