===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Che—
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
RECEIVED'& FILED
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: September 11, 2012
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chairman, Chris Comeau, Board Members, Louis Franco,
David Manzello, Associate Regional Assessor and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Matt Papini
Sr., Board Member, not present.
Board reviewed and approved minutes, current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments
& payroll.
Chris inquired about the letter dated August 8, 2012 which was sent to the Town Manager regarding the
office hours. Lou responded that he has not received a response as of yet. He will follow-up with an
email.
Louise reported that a Special Town meeting will be held on September 25, 2012 to present five
articles. The Town Clerk gave a copy of the warrant for the Board to review.
Louise presented (98) Statutory Exemption applications to the Board for review. After reviewing all the
applications, the Board approved 98 applications for exemptions totally $54,439.00.
David spoke on property sales for calendar year 2011. Reported that the median sales ratio is at
approx. 94% for single family homes and the median sales ratio for condos is at approx. 108 %. David
reported that Emerald Place has added additional 12-16 units this past year. At present no units have
been sold; they continue to be leased. David spoke on the process assessment finalization leading to
tax rate setting. He explained that he is still working on checking on occupancy permits to finalize the
assessment records and values on all properties.
Personal Property Project Update: Chris inquired about the bid for proposal regarding the personal
property project. Louise reported that the bid for proposal has not been sent out for a second time.
Louise reminded the Board that an incorrect amount of accounts made the last bid of proposal invalid.
Question of the date of completion needs to be addressed as well as an accurate amount of accounts.
Chris strongly recommended that Harald speak with Kerry as soon as possible to re-solicit the bids and
wants this completed before the next meeting. Chris directed Louise to inform Harald of this request.
Chapter 61 B Forest Land: Forest Management Plan and application returned regarding two parcels
Maps 42, Parcels 43 and 44. Upon reviewing, the Board approved the State Forester corrected
Management Plan and application. The classification of Chapter 61B Forest Land will be effective as of
January 1, 2013 for the fiscal year beginning July1, 2013. (FY14) Louise will inform the applicant of the
approval and will submit the Classified Forest Land Tax Lien for recording.
Discussion regarding the RE cyclical inspections: David reported the cyclical inspections are due for
FY15. Chris suggested that an article be prepared for the 2013 spring Town Meeting warrant to vote on
monies which will need to be approved and budgeted for the project. He would like to see the total
amount projected to complete the project be divided into 3 years. He expressed he does not like to
request the total amount in one yr.
Discussion regarding the Cooperative Assessing with Ashby: Chris spoke of the history of the
agreement with other communities to share a cooperative Principal Assessor. This contract was
===PAGE 2===
originally executed in June 1994 uniting Lunenburg, Ashby and Townsend. Presently, the Contract
Agreement remains with Ashby through FY2013; Townsend resigned in 2001. Chris suggested that a
Regional Meeting be planned sometime in the winter. It was reported that the Ashby BOA members are
active. Louise will check with Harald.
Next meeting will be held on Tuesday, October 2, 2012 at 6pm.
Meeting adjourned at 7:15 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lausi
Paquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
To the Board of Assessors
RECEIVED & FILED
JAN 09 2013
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
......
