===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
dell Me
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutos from the Board of Assessors mealing held! May 71i Meeting posisoned due to Lack of Quorum
The meeting opened at 6:05 pm.
Present: Chairman, Louis J. Franco, Board Members, Christopher
Comeau and Matthew J. Papini, Sr., Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid, and Louise Paquette,
Administrative Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, payroll and minutes.
Matt informed the BOA that he was sworn in this evening prior to the meeting after being elected for a
three year term at the annual Town Election which was held this year on April 30, 2013.
Chairman Election: A motion was made by Chris and seconded by Matt to appoint Lou as Chairman of
the Board. Lou accepted the position and thanked them for their support.
The Board reviewed and approved two Supplemental FY13 Re Bills to be committed on May 16, 2013 in
the amount of $4,214.39.
BOA is in receipt of 6 ABC applications (Religious & Charitable Organizations) seeking FY14 property tax
exemptions. Harald presented all the applications for review and approval. They are as follows:
• Lunenburg Historical Society - 10 School St
• Twin City Baptist Temple - 194 Electric Ave
• CIL Realty of Massachusetts, Inc - 463 West Townsend Rd.
• The Institute of Professional Practice, Inc.- 67 West St Terrace
• Seven Hills Community Services, Inc. - 308 West St.
• United Parish Assembly, Inc. - 39 Main St.
Chris confirmed that the property located at 67 West St is no longer vacated as it was in FY13. Harald
informed the Board that the application from CIL Realty of MA, Inc. was an application that was granted a
few years back and the application was denied last year because it was being sent by the lessor not the
owner. After reviewing the applications the Board voted unanimously in favor of granting full exemption to
all applicants.
Louise reported that she has electronically submitted the final FY 2013 Statutory Exemption report to the
state. The Board reviewed and signed the "hard" copy and will be filed. Total exemptions reported to the
state are $ 94,479.24 which includes one tax deferrals. Louise stated that the report does not take into
account the tax work off program which totaled: $9,520.00 in exemptions. A copy of the report will be
given to the accountant.
Harald reported that he received a letter and State Tax Form 166-380-MVE / BE today from the Tax
Collector deeming Motor Vehicle excise tax for two bills as UNCOLLECTABLE; one bill from calendar
year 1999 in the amount of $72.50 plus fees & interest and one bill from calendar year 2001 in the
amount of $15.00 plus fees & interest. Harald reported that new legislation (as of 2005), Assessors are
now able to address all excise issues for taxpayers on their own and that abatement guidelines do not
require the decision of the DOR. The Board reviewed the request and certified full abatement on both
===PAGE 2===
bills.
Harald presented Form 8 of 58 Form (Request for Authority to Abate Local Tax) regarding the property of
163 and 171 Lancaster Ave. He explained that the property has been abandoned and has been in tax title
since 2001 and has been subject to IRS seizure. The real estate taxes and interest have grown to
exceed the value of the property. Harald also explained that through Town Counsel, the property has
worked out a potential deal with an IRS trustee, if we can significantly reduce the back taxes and interest.
Potential buyers have offered to purchase the properties for a figure in the low $100,000. The IRS is
willing to pay Lunenburg $100,000 from a future sale's proceeds. The Board reviewed Schedule 58. 8
and the Real Estate Tax Statement provided by the Tax Collector and unanimously voted to petition the
Massachusetts Department of Revenue for authority to abate and wave back taxes and interest in excess
of $100,000. Harald has comprised a letter to the Bureau of Municipal Finance Law / DOR on behalf of
the Board and will await their decision.
Harald reported that the Personal Property Assessment project will be underway soon - Justine Lapierre
of RRG will be in conducting the project within the next few weeks.
The Board addressed and reviewed the Request For Proposal for Property Tax Administrative Services
provided by Harald. The Board was not satisfied with the item which they had requested at the last
meeting to revise describing the specific time / days which the Assessor will be on site. Chris stated that
Assessor will be required to be in the office at least for a half day when a holiday falls on a Monday, their
scheduled working day. Harald stated that he fundamentally disagreed about the 2 days on-site stating
that the office is not conducive to a quiet working environment and that more work is accomplished in his
office in Leominster. Assessors all agree that it is imperative that the Town's people and office staff have
an Assessor available to them onsite on a regular schedule to provide the services outlined in the scope.
Chris expressed concerns regarding office coverage during staff vacations and personal time off. Harald
offered that RRG may be able to provide assistance of a relief administrative clerk for approx. 12 days per
diem to be quoted in the non-price proposal. Chris suggested and the Board agreed that the item be
added to the scope of services. The Board stated that when the noted omissions listed under the scope of
services items are revised as recommended, they will approve the RFP and submit it to the Town
Manager for review and approval.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, June 4" at 6 pm. Meeting adjourned at 7:40 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lavise Paquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
