===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: October 1. 2013
The meeting opened at 6:07 pm.
Present: Chairman, Louis Franco, Board Member, Matt Papini, Sr.,
Harald Scheid, Regional Assessor, and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Member, Christopher
Comeau not present.
Board reviewed and approved 9/10/2013 minutes, current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants,
commitments & payroll.
Louise presented (15) Statutory Exemption applications to the Board for review. After reviewing all the
applications, the Board approved all the applications for exemptions totally $9,750.00.
Louise informed the Board that a Clause 22D Veteran Application was received. Along with the
application, the applicant provided documentation from the Dept. of Veterans Affairs determining that
the cause of death of her husband was "Service Connected". The records reflect that the Veteran is of
the Vietnam Era and served in the Air Force from March 1, 1967 to February 26, 1971. After reviewing
the VA Decision Documentation, Death Certificate, Discharge Papers, and Marriage Certificate, the
Board voted to approve the Clause 22 Veteran application. This entitles the applicant to receive full
tax exemption for five years. (Clause 22D exemption applies to the surviving spouse of a soldier, sailor
or member of the National guard "whose death occurred as a proximate result of an injury sustained or
disease contracted in a combat zone, or who are missing in action with a presumptive finding of death
as a result of combat as members of the armed forces of the United States. This exemption allows full
exemption from taxes for five years and a reduction of taxes up to $2,500.00 per year thereafter) The
exemption will be granted for the time period of FY15, 16, 17, 18 ₫ 19; the exemption amount
thereafter will be reduced up to $2,500.00 per year. Board will provide a letter to notify the applicant
of their decision.
Harald presented two "new" Chapter 61 Forest Land FY 15 applications and Forest Management Plans
to the Board for review and approval. The Board voted to grant both applications to be classified as
Forest Land commencing January 1, 2014 for fiscal year beginning July 1, 2014. Harald provided the
Classified Chapter 61 Forest Land Tax Liens and BOA signed and the document was notarized. The
properties are as follows:
550 Townsend Harbor Rd. - Map 28, Parcel 7 - 28.6 acres to be classified
500 Townsend Harbor Rd. - Map 28, Parcel 5 - 29.61 acres to be classified
Chairman Louis Franco signed the Certificates to be mailed to the Department of Conservation &
Recreation and to the property owners. The Certification is in effect from January 1, 2014 to December
31, 2013. Louise will notify the applicants of the Boards' decision and will contact them requesting the
$75.00 recording fees.
Harald informed the Board that a certified letter along with a Chapter 61 A application was received on
Sept. 30th from an Attorney representing Richard Bursch, Trustee for LTN Realty Trust. (Lakeview
Nurseries). The owner of the property is seeking to classify three parcels (093-072, 093-067, 093-068)
under Chapter 61A. The Attorney requested that the Board review the application and process the
application. The BOA reviewed the maps and other documentation and questioned the amount of
acreage that would be "actively devoted" to Agriculture & Horticulture. The parcels in question
together contain approx. 5.19 acres. Louis Franco made a motion, seconded by Matthew Papini to
direct Harald to compose a letter in response to the application. A letter was drafted stating that in
qualifying land would include retail and residential areas, the cell tower site, parking lots, driveways
and land not under active cultivation.
Along with the letter, a copy of the Department Of Revenues'
guidelines in qualifying acreage will be included.
===PAGE 2===
Louise informed the Board that Chapter applications were due back today, October 1st. On Sept. 16,
2013 a second letter was mailed to thirty "Chapter Land" owners as a reminder of the deadline. She
stated that seventy-one applications were mailed out in August. Louise reported that four applications
were yet to be returned and that two of the properties may be classified under APR. ( Agricultural
Preservation Program) Harald explained that this program is a voluntary "State" program that offers a
non-development alternative to farmland owners for their agricultural lands who are faced with a
decision regarding future use and deposition of their farms. The program offers farmers a payment up
to the difference between the "fair market value" and the "fair market agricultural value" of their
farmland in exchange for a permanent deed restriction, which precludes any use of the property that
will have a negative impact on its agricultural viability. Harald stated that these properties are
classified under the Chapter 61A as a procedure because "our" software system enables the
adjustment of the land values when "identified" as Chapter Land. The Board discussed the "tardiness"
of the Chapter Land applications and voted to not approve applications not received by the deadline
date of October 1, 2013. (Land cannot be classified for a fiscal year if the owner fails to comply with
all application deadlines and procedures.) Harald explained that if a city or town, is undergoing a
revaluation for that fiscal year, the application deadline is extended until 30 days after the date the
annual year's tax bills are mailed. He also explained that if the Board does not act upon a 61A
(Agricultural / Horticultural) application within 90 days then the application is deemed allowed and for
Chapter 61B (Recreational) if no action in three months the application is disallowed. Louise reported
that all 61 A applicants were reminded that they would be required to provide verification of their
farm income. She stated that a couple of the applicants failed to do this. The Board decided to review
each individual application and take a final vote on them at the next meeting.
Harald reported that Justine Lapierre from RRG continues to work on the Personal Property project and
has created a spreadsheet for "second home" values. Harald stated that it appears conclusive that
when you compare the values of the contents reported by the homeowner and 3% of the value of the
home, the valuation method appears to be in line. She reported that approx. only five properties
exceed the Personal Property $2,500.00 ceiling value for billing purposes. (May 5, 2012 the Town voted
to accept minimum fair cash value of $2,500.00 for personal property accounts to be taxed) Board
agreed with the findings and approved the valuation method for second homes.
Harald informed the Board that he submitted the FY15 Five Year Capitol Plan report and that he does
not anticipate any purchases that may exceed $10,000.00. Harald stated that according to the
Town Manager, a Special Town Meeting will be scheduled after the New Year so we should be on
"track" with the tax rate assessment finalization and tax rate setting schedule. He stated that he will
be in touch with all departments.
Next meeting will be held on Tuesday, November 5, 2013 at 6pm.
Meeting adjourned at 7:24 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Louise Paquette
Lami Paquette
Administrative Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
