===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
al age
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: February 5, 2013
The meeting opened at 6:05 pm.
Present: Chairman, Chris Comeau, Board Members, Matthew J.
Papini, Sr., Lou J. Franco, Regional Assessor Harald Scheid and Louise Paquette Administrative
Assistant. Also present for part of the meeting, Town Manager, Kerry Speidel.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, payroll and minutes.
Kerry attended to address the request for proposal bids received for the personal property collection and
valuation service project. She informed the Board that two bids were received prior to the Feb. 1st
deadline; one from Real Estate Research Consultants, Inc. (RRC) and the other from Regional Resource
Group, Inc. She informed the Board that Haralds' company, RRG solicited a lower bid than RRC and the
amount is within the amount appropriated at the May 2010 Town Meeting for this project. The Town had
voted unanimously to raise and appropriate the sum of $15,000 to retain the services of a qualified firm to
conduct field audits of all personal property accounts pursuant to a Department of Revenue mandate that
all such accounts to be audited at least once every nine years. Chris entertained a motion to accept
Haralds' proposal and the Board unanimously accepted and awarded the contract to RRG. Kerry stated
that she will send a formal notice and inform RRC that they will not receive the contract. The Board
directed that the project should be started by March 1s' to be completed by August 318. Louise informed
the Board that Linda Bradley from Community Software Consortium (CS) will be coming in to review our
current personal property software and informed Louise that a newer version of software will be available
to us if we wish to upgrade our current version. Louise also stated that Linda will also make herself
available for training on this newer version.
Kerry also addressed once again, the upcoming RFP for the Assessors' contract that will expire at the
end of June. The present contract covers the time period of July 2010 through June 2013. She asked
the Board if the scope of services we are currently receiving meets the needs of the office. She
requested that the Board of Assessors discuss this and contact her before the next meeting as she
prepares the RFP. There was some discussion regarding the present scope of services and Chris
suggested that he would like to address the needs of the office with the current statt. Harald presented a
25 page study report outlining Assessors' office staffing for task and assignments. He stated that he will
address this report with Kerry as well.
Harald reported that a total of 21 abatement applications have been received in the office. He stated that
this number is significantly lower that the number of applications we have received in the past. He
reported that David Manzello will be handling the inspections and will be presenting the applications at
the next meeting. Both Lou and Matt expressed an interest to accompany him on the inspections. Louise
reported that she will be setting up the appointments and will contact them with the schedule.
Louise reported that the first MVE commitment for 2013 and 7" commitment for 2012 will be processed
shortly. A full report will be presented at the next meeting.
Board reviewed and approved a revised Forest Land Tax Lien (Chapter 61) and Forest Management Plan
for property located at 380 West Townsend Rd. The property is now assessed under the name of RCL
Realty Trust II - Renee A. & Claire Bagley, Trustees (formerly Renee A. & Claire B. Bagley). Louise will
mail Chapter 61 lien to Registry of Deeds for recording.
===PAGE 2===
Harald reported on the Assessors' Office Budget for FY14. He explained that Kerry sent instructions and
budget forms to be completed by January 25, 2013 and the budget target for the office is set at $122,442.
Harald reviewed the line items outlined under the Assessor's Administration and explained that the total
expenses came in higher than the target due to the Town Share for Regional Assessor... the additional
$18,900 is to cover the mandated Department of Revenue periodic inspections; "Measure & List Annual
Inspection Program".
Some discussion regarding the proposed Special Town Meeting tentatively scheduled for March 12,
2013. Harald reported that he prepared a chapter roll-back calculation as requested by John & Judith Aro
for their property located at 400 Howard St. He explained that the office had received notification on
December 3, 2012 that the Aro's are intending to sell their agricultural land. The Board of Selectmen this
evening will discuss and vote whether they wish to put an article on the Special Town Meeting warrant
and hold a subsequent election allowing the voters the first option to purchase the property. The vote
must carry a two-thirds vote.
Harald addressed the Board regarding the various services that RRG offers to other Towns. He briefly
explained the growth in his company and he was pleased to say that he has recently added more depth
to his staff in the hiring of a Commercial Appraiser. There was some discussion regarding coverage in the
office due to vacation and lack of staffing to maintain regular office hours. Louise stated that presently
she works 32 hrs. per week and Principal Clerk Sheila Craigen works 20 hrs. per week. Harald stated that
RRG could possibly offer some coverage but additional monies would need to be built into the contract.
Louise stated that Sheila occasionally will work additional time covering the office which is carried over
into "comp" time. Louise stated that she is not aware of any issues concerning the office opening later or
closing earlier due to staff vacations or allotted personal time off. The Board agreed at this time to
maintain the present policy of closing the office when needed.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, March 5th at 6 pm. Chris stated he will not be able to attend
Meeting adjourned at 7:35 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Louise Paquette
auri Taquette
Administrative Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
