===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: June 4, 2013
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chairman, Louis J. Franco, Board Members, Christopher Comeau,
Matthew J. Papini, Sr., Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid, and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant.
May i eviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, and payroll. Minutes from the
meeting will be available for review at next month's meeting.
Louise gave a brief update regarding the FY14 preliminary real estate billing.
Community Software Consortium Membership Update: Louise reported that the General Membership Dues will
increase by $100.00 for fiscal year 2014. Harald informed the Board that the CSC CAMA has been working on
program enhancement for valuing condos. CSC is seeking approval expenditure for the condo redesign and misc.
expenditures. Harald explained that the project cost is approx. $17,200 and the monies are available within the
membership's budget; the ballot merely is for the approved release of those funds. The Board voted unanimously
to support the project and Louis signed the ballot.
Harald reported that he has spoken with the Town Manager requesting that RRG be given a one month extension
on the contract. This was approved
REP: The Board reviewed the scope of services and was satisfied and unanimously voted to accept the
"language" for item (p): Provide the services of an associate assessor specifically assigned to Lunenburg and
such other staff required to fulfill the above scope of services. The associate assessor will be in the Lunenburg
office a minimum of 45 calendar days throughout the year and be dedicated to serving Lunenburg an additional
45 calendar years either on-site, or remotely from an off-site location. Chris made note that the item staff
coverage support was omitted from the scope. Harald added an additional item (9) stating: "provide the
assistance of a relief administrative clerk (per diem to be quoted in the non-price proposal'. After discussion, the
Board voted to accept the RFP and it will be submitted to Kerry for review and approval.
Harald spoke to the Board regarding a letter sent to the office from an attorney in Springfield. The letter was to
alert us of an important real estate tax exemption case which could have a significant local impact. The case of
involves the New England Forestry Foundation, Inc. seeking charitable exemption classification. The ATB
upheld the decision of the Board of Assessors in Hawley, MA stating that NEFF did not occupy the property.
because it did not put the property to an active use for a charitable purpose. The Supreme Judicial Court has
taken the case for direct review. If NEFF succeeds, the "occupation" requirement will be greatly weakened and
the result could be the loss of taxable status for land in many communities and will affect the tax status of land
held by other non-profits for conservation purposes. Harald reported that he has responded to the attorney in
support of the ATB's decision.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, July 2"°
at 6 pm. Meeting adjourned at 6:40 pm.
Respectfully Submitted
Laure
Jag
mette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
