===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
KM
or me ff
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: April 2, 2013
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chairman, Chris Comeau, Board Members, Matthew J.
Papini, Sr., Louis J. Franco, Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid, and Louise Paquette, Administrative
Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, payroll and minutes.
Harald requested that the first two items (ABC Charitable Organizations and Chapter 61 B Application) be
tabled for this evening. A motion to "revisit" this at the next meeting was made and seconded.
Harald spoke regarding a previous real estate application which was denied at the last meeting. The
property located at 196 Leominster Rd. was demolished after July 1st.
". Harald explained to the Board that
the property was signed off by the Building Inspector on 11/18/12 and there are no plans to rebuild the
home. He made reference to a law generally known as the "Hopkington Bill" which is found under Mass
General Laws, Chapter 59, Section 2D. He stated that taxation would be warranted if the owner was to
rebuild on the property site. A motion was made to grant the abatement and was approved unanimously.
The office received an application for Personal Property abatement on 3/26/2013. The application was
"deemed denied" due to the application not filed timely. The applicant will be notified of the tardiness of
the application and the inability for the Board to act on the application.
Louise reported on the FY13 overlay. After tonight's approved RE abatement, there has been a total of
184 abatements granted totaling $129,426.09. Louise reported that there were 203 abatements granted
in FY12 and the overall total was $112,691.50.
Louise reminded the Board that the Town Election will be held on April 30" and Town Meeting will be held
on May 44'h
Board reviewed and approved the warrant and commitment of the FY13 Supplemental Bills for new
construction. Louise reported that the bills will be mailed on April g" and the total count for the
commitment is 26 bills totaling $60,090.75.
Harald spoke regarding the preliminary billing calendar; the process will be underway shortly. He stated
that David will be reviewing certified plans, new land divisions, map revisions and setting up new real
estate accounts within the next month in preparation for the preliminary FY14 billing file.
Harald reported that the personal property project contract is all set and RRG will begin the process soon.
Louise stated that she is still waiting to hear from Linda Bradley (Community Software Consortium)
regarding the upgrade of the personal property software. Louise reported that she has been reviewing
the version (7) FY 13 PP file and hopes to be able to merge the data into the newer version (10) FY 14
PP file. Staff training to be provided by CSC is also being planned.
Harald presented a sample of the FY14, FY15 and FY16 Request For Proposal bid for Property Tax
Administrative Services for the Boards' review and approval. He suggested that they review it this
evening and suggested that Louise send the file to the Town Manager upon their approval. After
===PAGE 2===
reviewing the scope of services it was noted that items describing the amount of service time to be
provided was omitted from the scope. Louise provided samples of PFP's from the neighboring
communities of Ashby and Ashburnham. After reviewing these two samples it was noted that the items
described in the scope of services included specific time / or days which the Assessor will be on site to
conduct those tasks normally carried out by a Principal Assessor. The othertwo RFP samples also
included within the scope, an item that designated the amount of hours which will be provided per year
of staff support, training and supervision as, as well as "higher order" technical assistance to the
associate assessor, administrative assessor and other town hall staff.
Chris stated that the amount of
service time must be included within the scope of services as it has in the past and suggested that Harald
work on updating this RFP and resubmit to Louise. The Board voted to approve the RFP as long as the
scope of services entails the descriptions of on-site service time and support time as it has in prior RFP's.
Once the RFP's scope of services includes the noted omissions, Louise was instructed to submit it to the
Town Manager for review.
Harald reported that we have no ATB's pending and reported that the Income & Expense report forms are
being received in the office.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, May 7" at 6 pm. Louise informed the Board that she will be away and
will not be able to attend the next meeting. Lou Franco agreed to "handle" the meeting minutes.
Meeting adjourned at 7:05 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Faquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
