===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
crense All
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: January 8, 2013
The meeting opened at 6:00 pm.
Present: Chris Comeau - Chairman, Board Members, - Matthew J.
Papini, Sr., Louis J. Franco, Harald Scheid - Regional Assessor, Kerry Speidel, Town Manager and
Louise Paquette- Administrative Assistant.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants & minutes.
Louise reported that approximately 540 Personal Property Forms of List were being prepared and mailed
within the next few days. She reported that Justine Lapierre from Regional Resouce Group was
assisting with this project.
Kerry attended in response to an invitation to address the topic of soliciting bids for proposal for the
personal property assessment project. She reminded the Board that the last proposal solicited was based
on an inaccurate amount of accounts and that she had received only one bid. She requested that the
Board provide her with an approximate amount of accounts and a timetable "drop dead date" of
completion. After much discussion, Chris stated that the project should be started by March 18 to be
completed by August 3151
. Harald and the Board agreed that the project must be started immediately
Kerry stated that she will prepare the RFP (request for proposal) and present it to the BOA at the next
meeting.
Kerry also addressed the upcoming RFP for the Assessors' contract that will expire at the end of June.
This contract covered the time period of July 2010 through June 2013. Discussions lead to the
reevaluation process for Real Estate assessments. Harald stated that the next reval year for Real Estate
is FY 15. He explained that the DOR certifies all values once every three years and the periodicals are
every 9 years; which is the same for personal property accounts. Chris stated that we will need to submit
an article for the spring Town Meeting warrant in order to fund the additional monies necessary for the
measure and list "periodicals" project. He stated that he would like to see the amounts split into three
equal amounts for three years to make it less of a burden on the taxpayers. Harald stated that in a nine
year range there are approx. five to six hundred parcels a year to be seen. The Board discussed
alternative ways to fund the project and proposed and agreed that the monies be rolled into the three year
contract of the Assessor rather that going before a Town vote. Kerry stated that she will take that under
advisement and will prepare the RFP to solicit bids and present it to the Board at the next meeting.
Louise reported that the bills have been mailed for the Actual FY13 RE & PP. The committed amount for
4,875 Real Estate accounts total is $19,058,622.85 and 179 Personal Property accounts total
$508,191.78.
Louise reported that the Fy13 RE & PP abatement applications are available in the office and are also
under the Towns' website. The deadline for filing is Feb. 1, 2013. Harald stated that he does not
anticipate much activity of filing. Waterfront property will see a slight increase in value as directed by the
DOR and driven by sales. Harald reported that the applicants will be contacted to set up an appointment
for property inspections. Lou & Matt expressed that they would be interested in accompanying David
Manzello on the inspections again this year.
===PAGE 2===
Two Elderly exemptions approved and granted totally $1,750.00. Louise also presented one 41A
(Elderly Persons) Tax Deferral application for review. The Board reviewed and granted the application.
Louise will send the property owner the Certificate of Deferral.
Budget: Louise stated that the Department should be receiving the proposed budget from the Town
Manager shortly.
Louise informed the Board that Cartographic Associates has resubmitted the contract and added the
omission on the last contract. The contract states the cost is $2400.00 which includes three (3) each
reduced size replacement prints, one (1) full size, color Composite map as well as one (1) complete set
of PDF map files. The Board reviewed and voted to accept the contract. Louise will mail back the signed
contract.
Next meeting is slated for Tuesday, February 5° at 6:00pm. Meeting adjourned at 7:20 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Laurie Faquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
