===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Off Ne
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: August 6, 2013
The meeting opened at 6:19 pm. Present: Chairman, Louis J. Franco, Board Member, Matthew J.
Papini, Sr.and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Harald Scheid Regional Assessor was not
able to attend the full meeting. (Board Member Christopher Comeau away on vacation).
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrant, and payroll. Louis
approved the July minutes and Chris will need to review and vote on them at the next meeting. (Matt did
not attend the July 2id meeting.
Louise reported that Judith & John Aro of 400 Howard Street were in touch with the office and decided to
delay paying back the Roll-Back Tax, stating that they are having issues with the sale and the prospective
Louise reported that the 4 MVE tax bills totaling $48,007.59 and the Farm & Dealer MVE commitment
totaled $7,608.25 were mailed out this past month.
Louise reported that we are in receipt of a letter from Michael Conway of 322 Flat Hill Rd. The letter
states that he wishes to continue with Chapter 61B classification (Recreational) and has completed the
application and signed the Acknowledgement of the Rights and Obligations under Chapter 61B. Board of
Assessors reviewed the application and Acknowledgment and voted to approve the application. Harald
prepared the lien for the continuation of this property under Chapter 61 B as well as the release of the lien
filed under the former owner Abby Guinard. Louise will prepare a letter for the Registry of Deed recording
and send the check in the amount of $150.00.
Louise reported that we are also in receipt of the 61B Chapter Lien application and Acknowledgement of
Rights and Obligations for 994 Northfield Rd (Settlers Crossing Golf Course). Property was purchased
on 11/20/2012. Louise reported that the FY14 application was received and signed by the former owner,
& B Realty Trust on on9/26/2012, formerly known as Maplewood Golf Course. The Board reviewed all the
documents including the "new" Chapter 61B lien and release of the former lien and voted to accept the
lien under the new ownership. Louise will contact the owners and request a check in the amount of
$150.00 for the release and new recording.
Louise reported that the statutory exemption process is underway and that approx. 165 applications were
mailed out.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, September 10 at 6 pm. Meeting adjourned at 6:40 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Louise Paquette
Lauri Faquett
Administrative Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
