===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
November 3, 2014
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, Perry Jewell, Dave Passios. Also present, Bob Ebersole.
MINUTES APPROVED:
None
TITLES INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGER:
754 West Street
141 Elm Street
16 Hemlock Drive
249 Arbor Street
...
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
455 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE - DIPPEN DONUTS
Paulo and Sara Adilson, owners, met with the Board. They are requesting a change from four (4)
stools and a counter for seating to a table and four (4) chairs. The counter and stools would be
removed.
Chairman George Emond reviewed water meter readings from April, 2014 through October,
2014. The usage has been averaging between 280 and 300 gallons per day. This is the total
amount of water used, including coffee, the majority of which is takeout and doesn't enter the
septic system. The system, as installed, allows for up to 440 gallons per day.
After discussion, and on Motion by Jewell and second by Passios, the Board voted to allow the
change from four (4) stools and a counter to four (4) chairs and a table. All in favor.
237 CROSS STREET
Tom Curtin met with the board to discuss finishing the second floor of his home. At the Board
of Health meeting on October 20, 2014, the board indicated that they would sign the permit with
a three (3) bedroom deed restriction. After discussion, it was so agreed and the permit was
signed.
.iI.:
: al..
===PAGE 2===
7 RUTH STREET
The owner of this property met with the board to discuss finishing the space over the garage.
Agent Jim Garreffi advised that finishing this space would create the potential for an additional
bedroom or in-law apartment and advised that he speak with the board.
• 2903%:
After reviewing the proposed building plans, the board advised that they would sign the permit if
the space over the garage was one large room without partitions which could include a closet and
a bathroom.
Meeting adjourned 7:45 pm
3X.:
32es
tener of this poise
Hi: usal.
::.
re the :
:::
