===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
December 1, 2014**:
:: "
The meeting was opened at 7:00 PM by Chairman George Emond at the Ritter Memorial
Building
Present:
George Emond, Dave Shea, Perry Jewell and Dave Passios
MINUTES APPROVED:
November 3, 2014
November 17, 2014
50.-
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
47 Highland Street
918 Chase Road
500 Holman Street
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
14 Broadmeadow Drive
754 West Street
"!,
714
591 TOWNSEND HARBOR ROAD
The property owner, Lee Brogdan met with the board to discuss finishing the space over his
garage. Mr. Broadan is also proposing a half bath and utility kitchen. Mr. Brogdan has an
existing septicipermit for a three bedroom home. This property currently has three bedrooms.
The space over the garage is connected to the residence through the kitchen.
Chairman, Emond advised that in finishing this space, it would be a fourth bedroom by Title V
definition. An addition with a utility kitchen and bathroom would create a situation where the
space could become an in-law apartment.
After discussion, the board advised that Mir. Brogdan can consolidate existing bedrooms and add
the space over the garage or he can increase the size of this septic system to allow for the
additional bedroom.
Mr, Brogdan advised that he will research his options and come back to the board when he is
ready:
int.
฿...
Dre
===PAGE 2===
154 WEST STREET
This septic system on this property is in failure. This site has a high water table. Because of the
lot configuration, it would be difficult to comply with a four foot offset to groundwater.. What is
being proposed is a three foot offset to groundwater.
After discussion and on motion by Shea and second by Passios, the variance was approved. All
in favor.
14 BROADMEADOW DRIVE
Jay Beiry and Doug Smith met with the board of behalf of the owner. This site has a falled title
5. Due to the location of the plumbing in the home as well as the location of the house on the lot,
it is not feasible to place the system in either the rear or front of the house. A Presby system is
being proposed with a variance request on offset to groundwäter from 4 feet to 3 feet. In
addition, a variance is required from the foundation to the leach field from 20 feet to 15.5 feet.
After discussion and on motion by Passios and second by Shea, the variances were approved
425 LEOMINSTER ROAD.*.
Becausu..
Mike Hayes, owner of the property, met with the board. Mr. Hayes is adding a garage on his
property and would like to finish the space above. Access to this space, if finished, would be
through the garage. only... The house has a three bedroom:septic permit and currently has three
bedrooms.
Chairman, Emond advised that in finishing this space, it would qualify as a fourth bedroom as
defined by Title V. After discussion, the board suggested that Mr. Hayes explore the feasibility
of expanding his system to accommodate a fourth bedroom!
Having noiother business before the board, meeting adjourned at 8:30 pm.
1...
:1013.5
• lE
:: would it
wigh, the 30r0e2 0?::
.!:
- Trap:...
ily los :!:
