===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF HEALTH
MEETING MINUTES
May 19, 2014
The Board of Health met at 7:00 pm at the Ritter Memorial Building
Present:
George Emond, Perry Jewell, and Dave Passios.
MINUTES APPROVED:
None
TITLE 5 INSPECTION REPORTS ACKNOWLEDGED:
916 Chase Road
439 Townsend Harbor Road
143 Highland Street
122 Beal Street
770 Reservoir Road
134 Whiting Street
367 Page Street
236 West Street
36 Easter Brook Road
1459 Mass Avenue
5 Watt Road
953 Reservoir Road
1392 Lancaster Avenue
SEPTIC PERMITS SIGNED:
30 Eastern Avenue
83 Sandy Cove Road
Chairman George Emond thanked Jack Rabbitt for all of his efforts on behalf of the Board of Health.
Member Perry Jewell said that Mr. Rabbit has always been very dedicated to the duties of the board and
was always well prepared for the issues the board addresses.
173 HIGHLAND STREET
Ms. Anne Meilleur filed a complaint with the board of health with regard to odor from cows at 173
Highland Street. Ms. Meilleur called and left a message asking to continue this discussion until our next
meeting.
Administrative Assistant Andrea Schnepf invited Brad Mitchell from The Mass Farm Bureau to speak at
this meeting regarding this issue. Mr. Mitchell explained the definition of Nuisance Complaint with a
further breakdown between a Public Complaint and a Private Complaint. Mr. Mitchell further provided a
handout in accordance with MGL Chapter 111 125A.
Odor does come under the jurisdiction of the Board of Health. Odor must be handled with the guidelines
of normal agricultural practices and are the guidelines used in the current regulations. Best management
practices go a step beyond..
The Board thanked Mr. Mitchell for his attendance at the meeting and for providing his expertise and
information.
===PAGE 2===
47 HIGHLAND STREET
Brad and Peggy Turner, owners of the property, met with the Board to request a dog grooming facility at
their residence. They provided current water readings.
A new system was installed in 2003 with an
allotment of 440 gallons per day (four bedroom system).
The Board as no objections to the dog grooming facility, however, the ability to run this facility stays
strictly with the Turners and does not run with the land or to a new or different owner or occupant of the
property.
30 EASTERN AVENUE
Doug Smith met with the board on behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. A Presby system is
being proposed. A reduction in the required depth to soil is being requested. This lot has very little soil.
After discussion and on Motion by Jewel and second by Passios, the variance was approved. All in favor.
83 SANDY COVE ROAD
Dan Proctor met with the Board of behalf of the owner. This system is in failure. The lot is served by
public water. The lot has high ground water and a sloping topography. This is the best system for the lot.
After discussion and on motion by Jewell and second by Passios, the variance was approved. All in favor.
43 HEMLOCK TERRACE
Eric Pettes, owner of the property met with the board. The well at this property ran dry and he would like
to drill and artesian well. Agent Jim Garreffi asked for a survey of the property.
Chairman George Emond wants to see a survey of the property prior to approval so that the board can be
assured that the well is, in fact, more than 50 feet from the system on the property and any adjoining
property. Chairman Emond will consider issuing a conditional permit where the well will be in excess of
50 feet from the septic or adjoining septic and well as the required distance from the property lines. He
further conditioned approval of the permit on the well including a 20 foot casing, sealed with benonite and
cement.
After discussion and on motion by Passios and second by Jewell, the request was granted with the above
conditions. All in favor.
SHADY POINT BEACH AND CAMPGROUND
The Board reviewed and unanimously approved the annual request for the use of portable facilities at
Sandy Point Campground.
Meeting adjourned 8:45 pm
