===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Aff MiX
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
RECEIVED & FILED
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: August 4, 2015
SEP 1 4 2015
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The meeting opened at 5:45 pm.
Present: Chairman, Louis Franco, Board Member, Richard Letarte,
Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Board Member
Matthew Papini, Sr.was not present.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments, payroll
and July 7, 2015 minutes.
Board reviewed and signed motor vehicle veteran exemption form in the amount of $142.50 to be
reimbursed by the State.
Harald spoke on 7 Tri Town Drive; property owned by Great Bridge Lunenburg, LP. He informed the
Board that the property was assessed in error and that the building had yet to be built as of June 30".
(June 30" is the deadline for valuations) The property owner received a FY16 preliminary bill and was
seeking abatement. Harald explained that Assessors may abate preliminary taxes at any time before the
commitment of the actual tax either on their own or upon a taxpayers' written application. He explained
that the amounts abated are to be charged to preliminary tax receipts not to the FY16 overlay account.
The BOA deemed the account 115-017 abated due to the assessment error in the amount of $25,895.27.
Louise reported that approximately 160 property tax statutory exemption applications and 70 Chapter
applications have been mailed within the last two weeks.
Harald gave an update of the ATB case for property located at 494 West Townsend Rd. He stated that
the property owner has been contacted via mail with a request to meet on the property for re-inspection &
review of assessment. He stated that the property owner has yet to respond to the letter.
There was discussion regarding date of the next meeting. Louise will contact each member of the Board
at the end of the month to determine the date. (The meeting will be held either Sept. 1 or 8" at 5:45 pm).
Meeting adjourned at 6:45 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lauri Paquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
