===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
AR.
Pith
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: September 8, 2015
The meeting opened at 5:45 pm.
Present: Chairman, Louis Franco, Board Member, Richard Letarte,
Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Louise reported that
Board Member, Matthew Papini, Sr.contacted her stating that he was serving "Jury Duty" in Boston.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments, payroll
and August 4, 2015 minutes.
Harald reported that Allan Foster (mailing address of 164 White St) requested a roll-back tax amount on
11.13 acres which is located within 14.25 acre parcel identified A Lot 1 on a plan of land recorded at the
Worcester Northern Registry of Deeds, Book 503, Plan #20. This parcel is identified as a portion of
Assessors' Map 56, Parcel 357, located on White St. The BOA was notified that the BOS signed the
$6,712.97 was paid on August 20, 2015. The BOA reviewed the Partial Release of Classified Forest
Land Tax Lien (Chapter 61) and signed the document in the presence of Elaine Peterson, Notary Public.
Louise will mail for recording.
Harald presented two additional Chapter 61 A Land Tax Liens regarding 830 Leominster Ra. (Cherry Hill
Ice Cream) He explained that the property currently recorded is under Chapter 61A but has been under
new ownership for several years. The recording will release the Chapter 61A lien under Robert B. &
Luanne MacMillan and other recording will classify the Agricultural/Horticultural Land Tax Lien under
Cherry Hill Ice Cream Realty Trust, Glenn C. Shepard, Trustee. Board reviewed and approved both liens;
notorized by Elaine Peterson. Louise will mail for recording.
Louise presented 84 statutory applications to the BOA for review. The Board reviewed and approved all
applications in the amount of $49,464.00.
Blind (B) - 5 @ $500.00
Clause 41C (E2) - 17 @ $750.00 each
Clause 17D (ED) - 2 @ $307.00 each
Clause 22 (V1) - 44 @ $400.00 each
Clause 22e ( V3) - 16 @ $1000.00 each
Harald spoke of some staffing changes that will occur within his office, Regional Resource Group, Inc.
He explained that due to an increase of his business, he has had to increase his staff. He announced
that Rebecca Boucher, Assessor has recently joined his staff. Prior to this, Rebecca had been employed
for the last twelve years by the Town of Shirley. For geographical reasons, George will be moving on to
Winchendon. Currently, Harald stated that he has Rebecca assigned to Lunenburg, Devens, Sterling and
Lakeville. He plans to have Rebecca attend the next meeting for a "meet & greet. Louise stated that she
hoped that the coverage of a day and a half by the Associate Assessor will continue; as well as Harald
serving the Town on Tuesday afternoons. Louise spoke of the increase of "work" on her and Sheila due to
the current increase of projects, building permits, motor vehicle excise, sales, etc., and stated that she
feels Personal Property accounts are not being sufficiently addressed. Louise requested that possibly a
work task review should be done which will support that more hours are needed to maintain the
Assessors' office and thus will provide that much needed time to execute tasks that will potentially
generate more income for the Town.
===PAGE 2===
Community Software Consortium: Harald reported that CSC (CAMA Software) will no longer be
supported by the Department of Revenue. He informed the Board that the annual CSC meeting will be
held on Thursday, Sept 10** in Sturbridge, MA and they are encouraged to attend. Harald stated that in
the wake of DOR's disbanding of the CAMA support group, RRG is "bringing on" former tech support
member, Mike Quinlivan for software support. Harald explained that their hope is to be able to present a
proposal which he feels would be the best choice for CSC members to consider. He explained that RRG
is in the process of moving to a larger office within the present Leominster property and that he will have
computer lab work stations within his "new" office space, which will be available for training. He stated
that his company will be able to provide hands on training and have the ability to breathe new life into the
CSC product suite. He will report the findings of the CSC meeting at the next BOA meeting. Louise
reported that presently the membership dues for Fiscal Year 2016 are $2,300.00. (This includes the
General Membership Dues of $750.00 and the Assessing Tier Annual Dues of $1,550.00).
Next meeting will be held on Tuesday, October 6, 2015 at 5:45 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 6:45 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Louise Paquette
Lauri piquette
Administrative Assistant
