===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: December 8, 2015
The meeting opened at 5:45 pm.
Present: Chairman, Louis Franco, Board Member, Richard Letarte,
Regional Assessor Harald Scheid and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assistant. Board Member, Matt
Papini, Sr., was not present.
Board reviewed and approved November 3, 2015 minutes, current expense vouchers, abatements,
warrants, commitments & payroll.
Louise presented 10 Statutory Exemption applications to the BOA to review.
After reviewing the
applications, the Board voted to approve all 10 applications totaling $5,750.00. Louise reported that the
Veteran 22D application which was approved last month for taxes to be fully exempt is $3,202.31.
Louise reported that 1396 Mass Ave (Parcel ID: 62-45 - 2.3 acres) is in the process of being sold
formerly owned by Dorothy Cassidy and presently owned by Bank of America. Louise explained that
Associate Assessor, Rebecca Boucher reviewed the property and stated that this parcel was split from
"Mother" parcel 62-50 in 2006 by Plan 464/24. Since 2.3 acres was created as a single family dwelling
for owner, there was no rollback tax paid; no rollback tax was necessary at the time of split. Louise
explained that the "Mother" parcel has two liens on record that seemingly cover parcel in its entirety and
that Rebecca suggested that the Forestry land tax lien on 65.74 acres of land be released in its entirety
as the parcel currently is covered by a Chapter 61A Agricultural lien. She recommended that a partial
release of 2.3 acres be removed from the Agricultural Chapter 61 A lien. The Board reviewed the two
liens and voted to approve the recordings. Louise stated that she is waiting for the recording fees in the
amount of $150.00.
BOA signed all documentation regarding tax rate recapitulation. Louise reported that the tax rate of
$19.61 per thousand was certified on 11/25/2015 and the FY16 Actual Real Estate and Personal Property
bills will be mailed on December 28, 2015. The Board reviewed and approved Personal Property and
Real Estate tax bill warrants & commitments. She reported that Personal Property bills commitment is
$687,884.12 (FY15 was $606,744.48) and FY16 Actual Real Estate bills commitment is $22,836, 359.07.
(FY15 was $20,397, 163.82 - Tax rate for FY15 was $18.32) The BOA reviewed and committed the
Betterment and Special Assessments in the amount of $638,749.51 to be added to the annual FY16
taxes. Louise stated that Kerry has added an insert to be mailed along with this year's 3° and 4* quarter
bills with information regarding the update of the Middle/High School Building Project and the tax impact.
(see attached)
Harald reported receiving the FY17 Capitol Five Year Plan and stated that he submitted the completed
form on 12/1/2015 to Kerry with no capitol requests proposed for the next five years.
Louise stated that the FY17 Personal Property Forms of List (approx. 480) will be mailed sometime in
January. The BOA reviewed the Personal Property letter and suggested language that should encourage
Property owners to be more accountable in returning the annual form. (see attached)
===PAGE 2===
Harald reviewed with the BOA the pamphlet, "Town of Lunenburg Valuation and Tax Summary" for Fiscal
Year 2016, which is available on the Town's website.
Commercial Inspections: Associate Rebecca Boucher will begin commercial inspections within the next
couple of weeks. Louise stated that she has mailed some letters recently to commercial businesses
requesting an appointment for a property data verification inspection. The letter explains that the
Assessors need to update our property data on the parcel to reflect the recent building permit to
construct, repair or renovate the improvements. Inspections are necessary to ensure the accuracy and
fairness of the assessed value; and it verifies that with a thorough measure and inspection, it will enable
us to uphold our goal of maintaining a correct and precise database.
The Board voted to meet next on Tuesday, January 5, 2016 at 5:45 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 7:25 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lanni laguette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
===PAGE 3===
Middle/High School Building Project Update, December 2015
The school building construction is 65% complete with 100 to 120 workers on site on any given work day. To date
the Town has received reimbursement in the amount of $18,778,015 from the Massachusetts School Building
Authority. Gas service has been turned on by the utility company. Temporary heat was connected and turned on
for the building. Temperature monitoring is underway in areas/buildings A and D with areas/buildings B and Cto
follow. The switch from temporary to permanent power is complete. Flooring installation is expected to
commence middle of November 2015. Painting, wall tile, lighting, acoustical ceiling tile ACT grid and mechanical,
electrical and plumbing (MEP) installations are underway in areas/buildings A and D. Framing, drywall, taping,
sanding, acoustical insulation and MEP rough-in installations are underway in areas/buildings B and C. Interior
masonry installation is nearing completion. Stair and elevator shaft installations are underway throughout the
entire building.
Exterior Envelope - The installation of window and
curtainwall assemblies including vestibule areas are
substantially complete and water tight. Roof top
equipment is in
place. Exterior masonry veneer
installation is nearing substantial completion. Metal
panel and curtainwall installations are ongoing with
expected substantial completion in November, 2015.
Building is now fully weathertight, with several
temporary loading points to enable loading of
materials and removal of waste.
In Area/Building
A where the high school
classrooms are located, drywall and paint
Installations are complete. Ceramic tile installation in
bathrooms and corridors is substantially complete
on both floors. Ceiling grid, tile, plumbing fixtures
and pendant lighting installations are underway.
Installations of fin tubes, duct drops, ceiling diffusers
and sprinkler heads are substantially complete on
both floors.
For Area/Building B where auditorium, music and art
classes are located, rough in-wall inspections in art
and music areas are complete with drywall
installations underway. Drywall is installed in
administration area and second floor classrooms in
area/building "B" west with taping and painting
underway. Installations of duct, sprinklers and
electrical is underway at the auditorium. This work is
performed above scaffolding platform.
In Area/Building C gym and locker rooms are located
along with the boiler and main electrical rooms. Duct
installation in locker room area, heat piping and
domestic water piping installations are complete.
Installation of interior brick for shower and toilet
room walls is nearing completion. Remaining glazed
block column enclosures are also complete.
Area / Bulldina D
Area/Bullding C
Area/Building B
- Area/Bullding A
In Area/Building D, where the middle school
classrooms and cafeteria are located, the last of the
framing and drywall in the cafeteria are underway
along with the installation of kitchen walk- in cooling
and freezing equipment. Installations of tile, ceiling
grid, ceiling tile, fin tube, drywall priming and
painting is underway in area/building "D" classroom
wing.
GD110086
===PAGE 4===
The building project has its own website accessible from the District's website (www.lunenburgschools.net) and
Facebook page -Lunenburg Middle/High School Building Project. The new school is scheduled to open in August,
2016. Students, parents/guardians, faculty and staff are engaged in a variety of ways planning for the transition to
the new building and reconfigured district. An FAQ can be found at the School Department website. Additionally,
a Reconfiguration Advisory has been appointed by the School Committee to respond to questions from alumni and
the community and to assist with decommissioning and dedication ceremonies. Please contact the
Superintendent's Office (978-582-4100 X 211) with any questions.
Update on Tax Impact: Your First Quarter and Second Quarter FY2016 Tax Bills already included an additional
amount for the new Middle School/ High School Construction Project, so you should see little change in your Third
Quarter and Fourth Quarter Tax Bills, assuming your home's Assessed Valuation remained approximately the
same. The original estimate for tax increase for FY2016 for the Average Single Family Home for this project was
$351.26. The final amount is $350.18.
The impact to your individual tax bill depends upon your property's Actual Assessed Valuation. The Average
Assessed Valuation in Lunenburg for FY2016 is $256,969.
The Town expects to borrow the remainder of the Town's share of the project costs, about an additional $5M, in
January 2016. The debt service costs for this additional amount should appear on your FY2017 Tax Bill.
Update from the Cable Advisory Committee
Your input is important to the future of Lunenburg's cable television system. The Cable Advisory
Committee is in the process of preparing to negotiate a new license with Comcast. Your participation in
a cable survey will provide us with valuable information for these negotiations. The Survey can be found
online at https://www.surveymonkey.com/r/KFXB7MW, printed copies are available at Town Hall, the
Senior Center and the Lunenburg Library. Surveys should be completed and returned by February 1,
2016.
===PAGE 5===
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135
Town of Lunenburg
Office of the Board of Assessors
978-582-4145 / Fax 978-582-4148
lpaquette@lunenburgonline.com
Louis J. Franco, Chairman
Matthew J. Papini, Sr., Member
Richard H. Letarte, Member
Haraid Scheid, Regional Assessor
Rebecca A. Boucher, Associate Assessor
Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor
Sheila Craigen, Assessing Clerk
January 1, 2016
FY 2017 FORM OF LIST
Dear Taxpayer:
Enclosed is a copy of a Form of List that must be completed and returned to the Board of Assessors
by March 1, 2016. Please read the instructions on page 2 of the form carefully. Forms of list
are not public record and can only be viewed by the Assessors.
The Form of List is simply a form on which businesses report their form of organization and list
personal property subject to taxation by the Town of Lunenburg. Personal Property includes
furniture, fixtures, equipment, and machinery used in the conduct of business. For second homes,
personal property is the contents of the home not considered your primary domicile.
If your business has closed or moved before January 1, 2016, please return the Form of List
form back to us stating what has happened. Closed businesses need to file a Statement of
Discontinuance with the Town Clerk's office. If you do not, we must assume that you are still
in business and you will continue to be billed.
• If you have sold your summer home, please inform the Assessor's Office.
• If you have no personal property, please send the form back, signed, stating that.
• If you are incorporated with a manufacturing designation, please report this in section A.
• You can find the electronic version of the Form of List online at www.lunenburgma.gov on the
Assessors Dept. webpage. You may attach additional sheets. Be sure to include a description
of each item, quantity, the year acquired, and the original cost.
Failure to file the Form of List may result in the Assessors estimating the value of your
personal property. Additionally, if you fail to file a Form of List annually with the Board of
Assessors, you have no recourse to file for abatement.
The Assessors may visit your place of business to inspect what you have declared. If you have any
questions, please feel free to contact this office at (978) 582-4145.
Sincerely,
Lunenburg Board of Assessors
FOLletterLunenburgFY2017.docx
