===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
meeting opened a 5:45 pm. In attendance were: Chairman, Lou Franco,
Boara members, nicnara Lelarte,
Rena Swezey, Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid, Regional Associate Assessor, Rebecca Boucher, and Louise
Paquette, Administrative Assessor.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments, and payroll.
November 7, 2017 minutes reviewed and approved. Tax Rate Recapitulation forms were signed by the BOA as well.
Statutory Exemptions: Ten (10) applications for exemptions were received and reviewed. Board voted to grant nine (9)
application exemptions in the amount of $5,850.00. One application was denied due to not meeting the income
qualification amount; income exceeded the qualifying amount of $68,700.00. (Notification letter will be sent)
Louise reported that the 6t commitment of $31,428.48 for motor vehicle excise was mailed on November 30, 2017.
Tax Rate Certified: Becky reported that we received an email today from the DOR, Division of Local Services
informing us that the FY2018 tax rate has been certified by the Bureau of Accounts; the tax rate will be $19.70 per
thousand.
Chapter Applications: Becky reported on the Chapter 61A FY19 application submitted by Nancy Dewitte Womble. She
stated that an inspection by her & Mr. Letarte was conducted at the property located at 357 Mulpus Road. Town
Counsel reviewed the deed and recent recording of a water easement to the property. After their review, it was stated
that this easement meets the contiguous water supply to this property. The inspection clearly established that the
property is being utilized for haying. The BOA voted to approve the Chapter 61A application for FY19. BOA reviewed
and approved Chapter applications which were "tabled" at the last meeting for properties located at 200 Pleasant St.,
189 Howard St., and 117 Mulpus Rd. The BOA reviewed and approved the recording of Chapter 61B Recreational
Classified Land Tax Lien submitted by David & Kimberly Maki; new owners for 255 Sunny Hill Rd. Property is
presently recorded as Chapter 61B classified land and formerly owned by Drumm, William & Susan. BOA denied the
61A application for property located at 1358 Mass Ave. A denial form will be sent and a letter seeking additional
information regarding ownership and supporting documentation in order to clarify the income reported.
BOA was notified of the FY17 ATB decision regarding property located at 236 West St. ATB found in favor of
applicant granting abatement; value was reduced by $55,400.00. Total abatement granted in the amount of $1,334.66.
BOA reviewed and approved the letter that will be mailed along with the annual Personal Property Form of List to all
Personal Property / Business Owners and Owners of second homes. Louise stated that in addition to the letter, a
checklist had been added last year to the back of the letter in order to provide more direction in completing the form.
Harald reported to the Board that Becky has filed a notice of resignation to Regional Resource Group, Inc. He stated
that her last day with the Town of Lunenburg will be December 20, 2017. BOA was very surprised by the
announcement and expressed their concern for the coverage of the assessment services. Harald plans to speak on
that at a later time. He told the BOA that the Town Manager has also been notified.
Board voted to meet on January 9, 2018 at 5:45 pm. Meeting adjourned at 7:20 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Louise Paquette
avi Paguette
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessor
RECEIVED & FILED
FEB 1 4 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
