===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
MADE
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 0 J 2017
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: JULY 10, 2017
LUNENBURG IOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The meeting opened at 4:00 pm.
Present: Board Members, Rena Swezey and Richard Letarte, Associate
Regional Assessor Rebecca Boucher and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor. Chairman, Louis Franco
did not attend.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments, June 6, 2017
minutes and payroll.
Louise reviewed with the BOA the eligibility requirements for property tax exemptions available to Lunenburg
residents which must be met as of July 1, 2017. (see attachment) She informed the BOA that all applications
will be mailed within the next few weeks and they must be received by April 1, 2018. Louise will forward this
information with the Senior Center.
CAMA contract:
Muncipality Enrollment In Tyler Technologies Las World Subscription-As A Service Program, MassiT Solution.
Louise explained that the contract has been reviewed and approved / signed by Town Manager and will be sent
back to Massit (Community Software Consortium) for the Commonwealth signature. The contract then will be
signed by SHi International Corporation for Assessment /Appraisal, Taxation and Land Management Application
(Tyler Technologies) She explained that the FY18 dues to CSC is the same as FY17. ($3,775.00), FY19 dues
will remain the same and in FY20 (July 2019) the first payment to Tyler will be in the amount of $6,210.00.
(annual fees effective for FY2020 - FY2022).
Louise reported that the personal property inspections will commence on July 19th
. A memo will be available on
the Town's website, public access TV and a notification email will be sent to the Public Safety Building.
Rebecca spoke on FY18 New Growth and stated that she is anticipating an increase of approximately $284,000
in tax dollars; adding that this figure does not include personal property, Unitil, or Whalom apartment projects.
Public Comment: The meeting was attended by David Rodgers of 82 Highland St., who voiced concerns about
the recent repaving of Route 2A. He expressed that he has issues with the State & Town Repaving Plan/
Policies. He stated that according to recent policy changes a road / street newly paved cannot be "cut into"
within 5 yrs. of completion. His explained his reason for coming tonight was to make us aware of this and he
feels that this policy will impact the values of these properties on these roadways. He is concerned for property
owners needing to tie into sewer, gas, water, etc. may not be allowed to do so. He requested that the BOA look
into this issue and verify the paving policy and its possible impact on properties. The Board expressed that they
will take this under advisement.
Board voted to meet on Monday, August 7, at 4:00 pm. Meeting adjourned at4:50 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Lami Faquette
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessors
