===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
P.O. BOX 135
LUNENBURG, MA. 01462
RECEIVED & FILED
OCT 0 5 2017
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: AUGUST 7, 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
The meeting opened at 4:00 pm.
resent: Chairman, Louis Franco, Board Member, Richard
LORA ONCE
Associate Regional Assessor Rebecca (Becky) Boucher and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor.
Board Member, Rena Swezey was not in attendance..
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, payroll and
commitments. July 10, 2017 minutes reviewed and accepted by Richard Letarte but tabled until Rena
Swezey reviews and approves.
Becky presented a "corrected" Chapter 61A Classified Land Tax Lien regarding the properties owned by
Kimball, Gordon & Brenda et al, and Trustees (formerly not in a Trust). BOA reviewed and approved the
new recording. Becky has been in touch with owner and will follow up on receiving the recording fee.
Becky reported on FY17 ATB cases. There are 4 active cases pending and 2 cases are being looked into
to see if the application was filed timely with the ATB.
Louise reported that approx. (75) Chapter Land applications and approx. (160) Statutory Exemption
applications were mailed this past week; (an increase of about 26 additional statutory exemption
applications).
Legal Services: Louise reported that the Town Manager, Heather Lemieux sent an
email informing that
as July 1, 2017, the Town transitioned from using the legal services of KP Law to Mead, Talerman, &
Costa. Attorney Adam Costa will be our lead counsel and as part of the legal services they offer, they will
be available for monthly office hours and will also be able to attend the Board/Committee meetings with
advance notice. (see attached "Use of Town Counsel" Policy which is still in effect and must be adhered
to). Heather advised everyone that the Open Meeting Law requirements still apply for monthly office
hours and a quorum of a Board cannot meet with Town Counsel without a posted meeting, and if you
would like to meet with Town Counsel you must identify a time slot under Doodle Poll.
Becky reported that the property of 994 Northfield Rd owned by 994 Northfield Ra, LLC (Settlers
Crossing, Inc) and property located at 961 S Northfield Rd. owned by Saliba, John & David
considering a land swap after discovering that a portion of the golf course is encroaching on the Saliba
property. The plan is to go before the Planning Board to rectify this issue after having the land surveyed.
Becky informed the Board that William Gustus of Settlers Crossing Enterprises, Inc has met with Harald
regarding changing the use of a portion of the "Recreational Classsied Land and under Chapter 61B. His
intention is to lease the land for a Solar Farm. Becky explained that under the MA General Laws for
Recreational Land, this will trigger a municipality's right of first refusal and a penalty tax assessment /
rollback tax.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, September 12 at 5:45 pm. Meeting adjourned at 5:00pm.
Respectfully Submitted
Lause Paquette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessors
===PAGE 2===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
ACCESS TO TOWN COUNSEL POLICY
All requests for the use of Town Counsel must be submitted in writing or verbally to the Town
The information furnished to the Town Manager must include:
The request or the question
What date a response is needed by
What type of response (written/verbal) is needed
Any additional information you may feel is necessary
The Town Manager will log in this request for Town Counsel's services and will respond as
necessary for each request for services.
Emergency situations should they arise, will be handled by contacting Town Counsel directly.
Then, immediately notifying the Town Manager as to the subject matter of the request as well as
an explanation as to why it was determined to be an emergency situation.
When a governmental body becomes aware that litigation is probable or imminent the Town
Manager and the Board of Selectmen shall be notified immediately. A meeting shall then be
scheduled by the Town Manager with all pertinent parties in attendance, including but not
limited to; the govermental body involved, the Board of Selectmen, Town Manager and Town
Counsel, to review strategy, risk assessment and cost limitations.
