===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Letarte, Regional Associate Assessor,
Rebecca Boucher, and Louise Paquette, Administrative
Assessor. Board Member, Rena Swezey was not in attendance.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments, and
payroll. September 12, 2017 minutes reviewed and approved by Richard Letarte; approval of minutes
tabled upon Rena accepting them.
Statutory Exemptions: Applications (48) for exemptions were reviewed. Board voted to grant all
applications totaling $11,650.00.
Louise reported that there will be a Special Town Meeting held Tuesday, November 28, 2017. Rebecca
reported that we have a tentative date of Tuesday, November 14" for the Classification Hearing and the
presentation will also include an estimated tax rate.
Chapter applications: Tabled Louise reported that 29 second reminder letters were mailed on
9/18/2017 and this is the largest amount of unreturned applications to date. FINAL letters will be mailed
out within the next week.
Rebecca informed the Board that the ATB cases for properties located at 231 & 235 West Street will be
held on October 23, 2017 and Harald Scheid will be handling them.
Rebecca reported that the Sales Report has been submitted to the DOR and the Growth Report is still in
progress. She plans to have a complete Growth Report for the DOR by the week of October 235d.
. She
presented the tax calendar schedule and informed the Board that she will meet with Karen Brochu to
review the dates. The purpose of this is to communicate with all departments (Town Manager,
Accountant, Tax Collector, Treasurer, Clerk, Board of Health & Sewer) providing important dates for
setting a timely tax rate and timely tax billing. Louise reported that many of the steps in progressing
through the tax billing process rely on every department completing their individual tasks in a timely
manner.
Solar Park Pilot Programs: Nothing to report; will be addressed at a later time with Harald Scheid.
Lou Franco, reported that he was in attendance at the Selectmen's Workshop meeting which was held on
10/10/17. The Selectmen were looking for an overview from a representative of every Committee and
Board. He reported that he explained the function and goals of the Assessors and was also given a
questionnaire to be completed and returned to the Selectmen's Office. He also shared that the IT
Department are working on enhancements on the Towns' website in order to create a more uniform
layout for each department, thus making it more user friendly.
RECEIVED & FILED
Board voted to meet on November 7, 2017 at 5:45 pm. Meeting adjourned at 5:25 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
син
Louise Paquette
Paquette
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessor
FEB 1: 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
-
