===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG, MA. U140<
Minutes from the Board of Assessors meeting held: February 13, 2018
MAR 15 2018
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
The meeting opened at 5:45 pm. Present: Chairman, Louis Franco, Board Members, Richard Letarte,
Rena Swezey, Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid, Associate Assessor, Joshua Gendron, Town Manager,
Heather Lemieux and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, payroll, abatements, warrants, commitments
and January 9, 2018 minutes.
RRG Assessment Services: In continuation of last month's meeting, the BOA requested that a follow-up
item be added to the agenda due to the lack of an Associate Assessor assigned to service the Town of
Lunenburg.
Relative to RRG's service contract, a relatively lengthy discussion ensued. Two main points of discussion
were (i) the BOAs receptivity to the implementation of "telepresence" in Lunenburg and (ii) RRG's office
coverage going forward in the wake of Becky's departure. In addressing the first issue, Lou Franco made
it clear that not only does the Board lack the authority to waive or radically modify contract provisions on
behalf of the Town, it is the position of the Board, with the support of the Town Manager, that we do not
wish to be "anywhere near the cutting edge" in implementing this technology in our office. Lou further
stated that if, in the future, some significant number of other towns has implemented it with positive
experiences, we might revisit the issue in the future, but that we do not envision that happening during the
present contract period. Relative to the second issue, Lou Franco indicated that, while the Board
understands that the contract provides for minimum onsite and offsite hours on an annual basis, and not
a weekly or monthly basis, there needs to be a more even distribution of coverage on a weekly basis, in
keeping with what had been provided before Becky's departure. In that spirit, Lou stated that he
requested, on behalf of the Board, that Louise keep track of the hours serviced in this capacity by RRG,
principally so that we can ensure that any shortfall is recouped during the contract period. Harald did
raise the point that there are peaks and valleys (our words, not his) in the coverage depending on activity
cycles. Although the Board acknowledged this, it also wanted to ensure that onsite coverage consistent
with that provided when Becky was here will resume in the very near future. Harald provided some
assurances in this regard. Harald introduced RRG Associate Assessor, Joshua Gendron who is now
assigned to Lunenburg.
Statutory Exemptions: One V1 application reviewed and granted in the amount of $400.00.
Louise reported that we are in receipt of twenty (20) abatement applications which consists of six 6)
Personal Property and fourteen (14) Real Estate applications. The Board approved to begin reviewing
them at the next meeting.
Louise reported that she received this notice of the submission of warrant articles and reads as follows:
The Warrant for the May 5, 2018 Annual Town Meeting will remain open until 6:00 p.m. on Thursday,
March 22, 2018. If you will be submitting a warrant article, or articles, please be advised that the full
===PAGE 2===
No action taken at this time by the BOA to submit any articles.
Louise reminded the BOA that the Citizens Party Caucus will be held on March 12, 2018 at the Turkey
Hill Elementary School at 7pm. Richard Letarte informed the BOA that he wishes to continue to serve on
the Board.
2018 Motor Vehicle Excise Tax: Louise reported that the issue date for bills will be February 27, 2018.
The total 2018-01 commitment of 11,615 bills is $1,390,762.50 and also 7th commitment for 2017 is in
the amount of $12,135.09 for 322 bills.
Harald reported that the FY19 DOR revaluations inspections will be in full force this year and he plans to
have his full staff out inspecting the entire town; hoping to" wrap it up" in approximately 10 days.
Harald estimated that the "New Growth Revenue" to be $375,000 for FY19 and has reported this figure as
requested to the Town Manager and Accountant. He also stated that this is his best estimate although we
are still waiting on completion of building permits for new construction, etc.
Board voted to meet on March 6, 2018 2018 at 5:45 pm. Richard stated that he may not be in attendance.
Meeting adjourned 7:06pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Tani
Louise Paquette
Paquitte
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessor
