===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments, June 5",
2017 minutes and payroll.
Attorney Erb spoke on behalf of Garth & Colleen W. Stillman and Low Places Ranch, LLC. (Jeffrey A.
Powell, LLC's Manager). He stated that he wanted to attend this evenings' meeting to follow up on a
letter he sent to the Board on June 14, 2018. The letter included a signed Affadavit / Purchase and Sales
Agreement to purchase land presently owned by the Stillmans. It is identified as 285E Goodrich St.,
Map 129, Parcel 1 which currently is classified under Chapter 61A Agricultural / Horticultural Land and a
tax lien is in place. He explained that the Affidavit is given with the intention of informing the BOA that the
parcel will continue to be used as horticultural land and it is being purchased by the Low Places Ranch,
LLC and therefore the transfer will not give rise to a conveyance tax or roll back tax. Attorney Erb stated
that he is seeking a Certificate to the Sellers that no conveyance tax and no roll back tax will be due on
the account of the sale of this property. The Affidavit also states that "RANCH" is aware that if at some
future date it fails to use the LAND for agricultural or horticultural purposes it will become obligated at that
time to give notice required by Chapter 61A and must pay applicable taxes. The BOA will review the
correspondence and assured Attorney Erb that Harald will review the documentation and address the
Certificate request.
Louise reported that one additional supplemental RE bill was mailed on June 18, 2018 for new
construction in the amount of $10,181.67.
Louise reviewed with the BOA the eligibility requirements for property tax exemptions available to
Lunenburg residents which must be met as of July 1, 2018. (See attachment) She informed the BOA that
all applications will be mailed within the next few weeks and they must be received by April 1, 2018.
Louise will forward this information with the Senior Center.
Louise reported that the Forms of List were recently picked up by Real Estate Research Consultants, Inc
and the inspections will be taking place shortly. Louise will notify Public Safety that the data collectors will
be out and about.
Farm Excise Tax: The Board is reviewing the procedure in calculating values for machinery / equipment
(minus farm animals) in regards to Personal Property tax. The Board reviewed Chapter 59, Section 8A
and stated that an Application for Excise on Farm Animals, Machinery and Equipment (State Tax
Form F.A.E.M.E) must be filed along with the Annual Form of list. Rich offered to work on this project as
the town has seen an increase in agricultural type of businesses. Louise will speak with RRC in regards
to how they handle the valuations and farm excise tax with other communities.
Joshua presented the upcoming ATB case regarding properties located at 508 & 516 New West
Townsend Rd. He spoke of Haralds' recommendation to settle on the FY17 ATB Settlement based on
the recent sale price of the properties. (4/2018). Both properties were sold for a total of $150,000. The
BOA agreed to reduce the values on both properties and an abatement will be granted upon receiving a
Certified Withdrawal from the ATB.
Board voted to meet on August 14, 2018 at 5:45 pm. Meeting adjourned at 7:00 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
ані
Louise Paquette
Paquette
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessor
