===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting opened at 5:45 pm. In attendance were: Chairman, Richard Letarte, Board Members, Louis
Franco and Rena Swezey, Regional Assessor Harald Scheid, Regional Associate Assessor, Joshua Gendron,
and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments, payroll, and
September 11, 2018 minutes.
Statutory Exemptions: Applications (33) for exemptions were reviewed. Board voted to grant all applications
totaling $18,771.
FY20 Chapter Applications: Louise reported that all applications (approx. 80+) except for one were received
timely. Board will revisit the property that failed to file the application. Also, the BOA reviewed 'new" FY20
applications as follows:
100 Howard St. - 015-012 - Cole - Chapter 61 Forest Management / FY20 application approved
39 Wildwood Rd. - 010-050 Hickory Hills Landowners, Inc. - 61B Recreational/FY20 application approved
285 E Goodrich St. - 029-001 Low Places Ranch, LLC - 61A Agriculture- Formerly owned by Stillman,
classified under 61A. BOA voted to table decision until a full inspection of the 103 acre property and requesting
more information regarding the use of this property. Richard requested that Louise contact Marina Scheid, RRG
Chapter Specialist to set up an inspection date with Jeffrey Powell. He stated that he will accompany them with
this inspection.
920 Lancaster Ave. - 120-011 - Hansel (formerly lannaccci) - Property was sold on 7/13/18 and no longer
qualifies for Chapter 61A due to lack of acreage. The BOA voted to commit the rollback tax in the amount of
$1,965.81 and Harald stated the Hansels 'were not required to file a "Right of First Refusal "due to the filing of
an affidavit to continue to use the land as agriculture. (apple growing).
Board recommended that all properties applying for chapter land classification be visited prior to acceptance.
They also spoke of scheduling inspections of chapter properties on a rotating basis, spreading the accounts
over a few years. For 61A properties, they voted to maintain the filing of supporting income documentation and
expressed satisfaction with the accounts under 61 Forest Management.
Board expressed concern over the
amount of 61B accounts and will target these properties for inspection.
Louise reported that there will be a Special Town Meeting held Tuesday, November 13, 2018 and the
Classification Hearing will be held on November 20, 2018.
Assessment Finalization - Tax Rate Setting Schedule - Growth Certification: Harald reported that "Scott"
from the DOR is still working on finalizing Real & Personal Property assessed valuations and is hoping by the
end of next week the DLS will certify preliminary values. He explained that once we receive this certification, we
are required to hold a week of Public Disclosure of the proposed Fiscal Year 2019 valuations
Harald presented the BOA with the Tax Rate Setting Schedule indicating the Target Dates and Objectives.
Louise will provide a copy to the Town Manager and every department who has items to master in this process.
The purpose of this is to communicate with all departments (Town Manager, Accountant, lax Collector,
Treasurer, Clerk, Board of Health & Sewer) providing important dates for setting a timely tax rate and timely tax
===PAGE 2===
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessor
