===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting opened at 5:00 pm.
Present: Chairman, Richard Letarte, Board Members, Louis Franco,
Rena Swezey, Regional Assessor, Harald Scheid, and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments, payroll,
and June 11, 2019 minutes.
Statutory Exemption Qualifications & Applications: Louise reported that approx. 132 applications
were mailed this past month which also included 21 new applications. (See attached qualification info)
Committed & Revised Assessment Report: BOA reviewed and signed Form LA 13A; form submitted
to DLS Gateway. Chapter rollback collected in the amount of $19,036.68 for FY 2019.
2006 MVE Tax: BOA reviewed and approved excise tax abatement in the amount of $4,038.37 as
uncollectable.
2019-04 MVE tax commitment: July 30, 2019 commitment in the amount of $99,072.60
Personal Property Inspections: Louise reported that Real Estate Research Consultants, Inc (RRC) is
in the process of conducting of inspections and the Police Department has been notified
Community Software Consortium (CSC): Louise reported that an email was received from CSC on
June 3, 2019 regarding Public Access, notifying us that support services are being discontinued after
June 30, 2019. The Public Access system is scheduled to be shut down as soon as all towns have
completed their Tyler Conversion which all should be converted by late fall.
Assessment Software: Rich Letarte spoke regarding the meeting with Town Counsel, Town Manager,
Louise and Joshua regarding the new CAMA software Tyler iasWorld contract. After much discussion with
Counsel, he recommended to the Board that it may be best at this time to go forward with iasWorld
assessment software. The BOA agreed to support his recommendation.
Chapter Accounts: A new chapter 61A application was received regarding property located at 380
Goodrich Street. The BOA will review this once the Chapter Specialist reviews and inspects the property.
(Tabled for a future meeting)
Report by Assessor:
Appellate Tax Board: In regards to the pending case regarding 235 West St. the BOA requested that a
letter be drafted to the property owner regarding the reason for filing. The BOA had approved decreasing
the value within the same percentage that the owner was seeking along with granting the abatement for
this year. The Board recommended that the property owner be invited to attend the next meeting; they
would be happy to address any questions or concerns he may have. Joshua will prepare to mail this as
Building Permit Inspections: Discussion regarding new construction and the communication of
receiving building / occupancy permits. Louise explained that the building department has been
===PAGE 2===
created during ine coor implementation or newly redrawn real estale poundary maps. with this
remapping, the new parcel identification numbers as well as calculated acreage was assigned by the
Towns' mapping vendor. The account for this property is showing in the Assessors data base beginning
in 2008. Lou stated he will be in touch with the interested party and will suggest to them that they may
need to hire someone to conduct a Title search.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, September 17, 2019 at 5:00 pm.
Meeting adjourned 6:40 pm.
RECEIVED & FILED
Respectfully Submitted
Lauri
Louise Paquette
Paguette
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessor
SEP 18 2019
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
