===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting opened at 5:00 pm. Chairman, Richard Letarte,
Board Members, Louis Franco, Rena
Swezey, Associate Regional Assessor, Joshua Gendron and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants, commitments, payroll
and July 30, 2019 minutes.
Statutory Exemptions: 92 applications for exemptions were reviewed and approved. Total amount
granted: $54,932.00.
Signature Authorization for DLS Gateway Entries: Louise reported that she has prepared the MVE
Veteran Exemption report to be submitted in Gateway for reimbursement in the amount of $3,013.13.
BOA reviewed and approved the form authorizing Louise to sign on behalf of the Board.
Chapter Reviews: Certificate of rollbacks prepared, reviewed and signed by Board for properties no
longer under Chapter 61A: 150 Holman St. (Szocik, Peggy & Szocik, Thomas) & 400 Howard St. (Aho,
John) Rollback prepared and committed in the amount of $3,699.99 for Szocik / Proctor. No rollback due
on 400 Howard St.; has not received Chapter designation since 2013. Board voted to table the review of
new Chapter applications until the next meeting.
Privilege Fee / Sewer Order #24: 146 Lancaster Ave. 071-029; property owned by Tapply, William &
Bevin - BOA reviewed and approved the commitment / warrant Sewer Privilege fee in the amount of
$6.998.74.
Correspondence: Office has been in receipt of numerous visits, calls & emails from a disgruntled
taxpayer. Louise reported all staff has been affected by the issues with this individual. Louise explained
that the Chairman of the Board was notified and she also met with the Town Manager to discuss the
emails and the disposition of the taxpayer. Town Manager felt that a report to the Police Chief was
warranted due to the severity of the language held in the emails and for the safety of the staff. Louise
reported that an Officer visited the office to collect more information followed by a visit from the Chief a
few days later.
Special Town Meeting - Tuesday, November 12, 2019 - Warrant Articles will be open on September 10'
and be must be submitted on or before September 30, 2019.
Report by Assessor:
New Growth: Josh presented to the BOA estimated New Growth Valuations for Real Estate and
Personal Property at approximately $19,090,659 with growth revenues estimated at $355,000t.
A finalized report will be provided at the next meeting.
Appellate Tax Board Case: In regards to the pending case regarding 235 West St. Joshua reported to
the Board that Mr. Cardinal did not show interest in attending the BOA meeting but came in to speak with
He agreed to withdraw his application with the ATB with the understanding that another
certificate correcting the language on the certificate be mailed to him. Certificate corrections were made
stating that the abatement was granted based on data change. The BOA had approved decreasing the
value within the same percentage that the owner was seeking along with granting the abatement for this
year. Louise will mail the certificate via certified mail.
===PAGE 2===
Launloguette
Louise Paquette
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessor
