===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
The meeting opened at 5:00 pm.
Present: Chairman, Richard Letarte, Board Member, Rena Swezey,
Associate Assessor, Joshua Gendron and Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor. Board Member,
Louis Franco not present.
Board reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, payroll, abatements, warrants, commitments
and April 9, 2019 minutes were tabled.
Supplemental Billing: Eight (8) supplemental bill notification letters will be mailed tomorrow to property
owners for new construction whose building values have increased over fifty percent in the current 2019
fiscal year.
Address
981 NORTHFIELD RD
654 MASS AVE
656 MASS AVE
658 MASS AVE
63 PROSPECT ST
231 GOODRICH ST
441 GOODRICH ST
40 PIONEER DRIVE
Property Owner
P & P BUILDERS LLC
SIGNATURE LIVING LCC
SIGNATURE LIVING LCC
SIGNATURE LIVING LCC
RANIERI, DOMENIC
MCDONALD, MARTHA A
PSG REALTY 393-435 LLC
QUILL LUNENBURG REALTY LLC,
Letter states as follows:
"This letter is to explain your supplemental tax bill which you will soon be receiving in the
mail. In compliance with General Law Chapter 59 Section 2D, cities and towns must make
supplemental pro-rate tax assessments on the value of certain improvements to real estate
made after the June 30 assessment date for new construction. Properties undergoing
significant real estate improvements in which the building value increases by at least 50% are
subject to immediate taxation upon completion as indicated by a Certificate of Occupancy or
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy. Your supplemental property tax bill is calculated from the
date of your occupancy permit to the end of the fiscal year and is in addition to your actual tax
bill for FY2019".
Original Assessed Building Value:
Revised Assessed Building Value:
Increase in Value:
Tax Rate:
Occupancy Issue Date:
# of Days Remaining in Fiscal Year:
Prorated Supplemental Tax Due:
Chapter 61B - 994 Northfield Rd, LLC - 994 Northfield Rd.; Map 037, Parcel 13. BOA reviewed and
approved the partial release of 35.07 acres being a portion of 209.74 acres classified under Recreation
Land. A rollback tax of $6,445.84 was collected on April 18, 2019 in the amount of $6,445.84. Louise will
send the partial release lien to Registry of Deeds for recording.
===PAGE 2===
reviewed and signed the statutory reimbursement forms. Louise reported that the total exemption
amount granted is $88,586.19 for 140 statutory exemption applications.
las World Conversion Update: In terms of the CAMA/ Assessing project, the BOA expressed their
concerns over the implementation of the product and has reached out to the Town Manager regarding
the Master Services Agreement. Town Manager has been in contact with Town Counsel and she stated
that she spoke with the Attorney at Mead, Talerman & Costa and they reviewed the contractual
documents and at this time and we cannot terminate the agreement. The contract states that through
the second year of the contract there are fees associated with early termination (first year of the signing
of the contract began on July 1, 2017). However, if during the course of this upcoming fiscal year we
find that the software / support is not working out, we will be in the third year of the contract and could
possibly seek termination. The BOA had several questions and wishes to seek further advice from Town
Counsel. Louise will contact Town Manager with their request. In the meantime, it was agreed that
Lunenburg's conversion and implementation will be "pushed back" which was scheduled to take place
April 29* through May 31s. In preparation for the conversion, the Assessors will need to perform a
field/desktop review which is required for any CAMA conversion; David Manzello, (RRG) will be handling
this process as the Project Manager.
Report by Assessor: Joshua spoke on the ATB Case Docket #F-33766 that was received on April 1, 2019
regarding 361 Massachusetts Ave., Robert A. Leverone, Trustee of Lunenburg Nominee, Trust. Josh
explained that the BOA had denied the abatement application and that there was no supporting
documentation to support the value estimated by the owner. Joshua stated that he and Harald have
been in communication with Kathy Fennell representing Mr. Leverone, which she stated that a Purchase
& Sale Agreement has been accepted for the property in the amount of $900,000. Joshua stated after
discussing the case and reviewing supports which were now provided by the property owner, Harald's
recommendation would be to reach a settlement agreement. Joshua proposed a new valuation of
$885,000 and the BOA voted to agree on that valuation. Joshua stated that he will be in touch with the
Trustee.
Board voted to meet on Tuesday, June 11, 2019 at 5:00 pm.
RECEIVED & FILED
Meeting adjourned 6:40 pm.
SEP 18 2019
Respectfully Submitted,
LUNENBURG TOWN
Lavie
Louise Plaquette
Jaguette
CLERK OFFICE
Administrative Assessor
Office of the Board of Assessor
