===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded
and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance from the
Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps
ommunities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public. in accordance
with the Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public
meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be recorded and will be able to be found on the
Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting
Members present: Chairman, Richard Letarte, Board Members, Louis Franco, and Rena Swezey and
Administrative Assessor, Louise Paquette, Administrative Assessor (Temporarily appointed) Sheila
Craigen.
Also present: Town Manager, Heather Lemieux and Assistant Town Manager / HR Director, Julie
Belliveau.
Rich opened the meeting at 1:05 pm with roll call and the recital of the rules for this remote and recorded
meeting. He read the items on the agenda and referred to Louise.
Agenda:
• Review and approval of Property Tax Assessment Services Request for Proposal: Louise stated
she has been diligently working back and forth with both Julie and Heather and they have the final draft
for the RFP (Request for Proposal). Louise stated the BOA received their copies earlier today and she
requested they "follow along" to discuss the changes made. Julie explained the minor changes made on
pages 3-5. Rena stated she has been in touch with Christina Purple,
the director of MAAO
(Massachusetts Association Assessing Officers), and confirmed we will be able to post the RFP on the
"business services section" of the website, Christina also pointed out if we are looking for inspection
service, there are some names in that section as well. Louise stated when and if the Principal Assessor
position gets approved under the Salary Administration Plan, we should be able to advertise in both the
MAAO and MAA (Massachusetts Assessors Association). The Principal Assessor position would get
posted under the job opportunity section of both websites.
Julie referred to the Scope of Services section starting on page 7 (seven). Louise stated her biggest
concerns are regarding Chapter Land and the wording on items 19 (nineteen) and 21 (twenty-one).
Louise explained in the past, there has been question as to whether or not all land owners are using the
land and following the rules as stated for the certain designations. She suggest once we have the
completed chapter application, the BOA should not vote until a site inspection has been done. The word
"may" should be removed from item 19. Julie suggested we make the changes and combine items 19
(nineteen) and 21 (twenty-one) into one line item.
All in favor of accepting the changes as stated.
===PAGE 2===
There was question and some discussion on the grade level assigned to the Principal Assessor
position. Heather explained this grade recommended based on the level of responsibility and comparison
analysis with other towns.
All in favor of accepting the changes as stated.
Julie confirmed final drafts will be made for the Personnel Board meeting tonight.
Chairman / Assessor Reports: None.
Open Discussion: None.
Adjournment: Meeting adjourned at 2:12 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Sheila Craigen
Administrative Assessor (Temporarily appointed)
Office of the Board of Assessor
