===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded
and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance from the
Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps
communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public. In accordance
with the Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public
meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be recorded and will be able to be found on the
Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting
Members present: Chairman, Richard Letarte, Board Members, Louis Franco, and Rena Swezey and
Administrative Assessor (Temporarily appointed), Sheila Craigen, Town Manager, Heather Lemieux.
Also present: Susan Byrne
Call to order
Rich opened the meeting at 10:00 am with roll call and the recital of the rules for this remote and recorded
meeting.
Approval of minutes
Lou Franco motioned to approve the minutes for both April 8, 2020 and April 13, 2020. Rich seconded the
motion. All in favor.
Current Business:
• Ratification of Town Manager's appointment of Principal Assessor:
Rich introduced Susan Byrne. Heather spoke to preface the BOA vote to ratify. Rich Letarte motioned to
approve the appointment of Susan Byrne as the Principal Assessor. Lou seconded the motion. All in
• Review, consider and vote on response to Open Meeting Law Complaint filed by Carl Luck
dated 6/29/20 on file with the Town Clerk:
Both Rich and Heather spoke on the complaint filed. Heather stated Town Council has prepared a
response to the complaint that needs to be filed with the Attorney General. BOA members agreed they
were all given copies of the response letter and all had reviewed prior to the meeting. Lou motioned to
ratify the letter. Rena seconded the motion. All in favor. Heather stated she will notify Town Council they
can send the letter to the Attorney General office.
===PAGE 2===
a regular basis once she starts her job position. Susan stated she has been given some good
resources at Tyler Technologies. Discussion ensued on the Tyler system and the obligation of RRG
(Regional Resource Group) to see the conversion through despite their contract coming to an end.
Rena stated she feels we should consider an alternate vendor. Rich stated he agrees with the
suggestion and we should further discuss once Susan starts her position. Rena offered to make some
calls to inquire.
Adjournment: Meeting adjourned at 10:25am.
Respectfully Submitted,
haigur
Sheila Craigen
Administrative Assessor (Temporarily appointed)
Office of the Board of Assessor
