===PAGE 1===
     BOARD OF ASSESSORS  
Monday, April 13, 2020  
  1:00 PM  
     AGENDA  
  
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is be ing recorded 
and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel. 
  
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance from the 
Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus a nd steps 
communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public. In accordance 
with the Governor’s Order Suspending Certain Provis ions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, a ll public 
meetings are being conducted remotely. 
This meeting will be recorded  and will be able to be found on the 
LunenburgAccess YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting.  
  
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like to view in the meeting 
remotely: 
To View Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting 
webinar: https://zoom.us/j/551158543  or  From a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499  and enter 
Webinar ID:  551 158 543  
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail 
address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after 
joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.  
  
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the 
Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other 
items not listed may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
Agenda:  
 
•  Review and approval of Property Tax Assessment Ser vices Request 
for Proposal  
•  Principal Assessor Position / Grade Approval Propo sal  for Personnel 
Committee 
 
 
Chairman / Assessor Reports: 
*Other matters that may arise that the Chair didn’t reasonably anticipate 
 
 
Open Discussion 
 
 
Adjournment 
 