===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded
and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel.
The Town of Lunenburg, in response to the COVID-19 (Corona Virus) is currently following the guidance from the
Lunenburg Board of Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health and the CDC regarding the virus and steps
communities can take to prevent the spread and all town facilities are currently closed to the public. In accordance
with the Governor's Order Suspending Certain Provisions of the Open Meeting Law, G. L. c. 30A, § 20, all public
meetings are being conducted remotely. This meeting will be recorded and will be able to be found on the
Lunenburg Access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the meeting
Members present: Chairman, Richard Letarte, Board Members, Louis Franco, and Rena Swezey and
Administrative Assessor, Louise Paquette.
Also present: Town Manager, Heather Lemieux and Assistant Town Manager / HR Director, Julie
Belliveau.
Rich officially called the meeting to order at 1:07 pm Wednesday April 8, 2020. Rich stated he believes
the first items on the agenda were previously approved and he referred to Louise to confirm the same.
Agenda:
• Review and approval of expense vouchers, abatements, statutory exemptions, payroll,
commitments, warrants and 2/11/20 minutes: Louise confirmed the only expense voucher was for
RRG (Regional Resource Group) and had been previously approved. She stated the abatements include
MVE (Motor Vehicle Excise) and a list of old uncollectable PP (Personal Property) bills as directed by the
Tax Collector to be abated at this time. The PP abatements processed were for 1998 through 2003.
Louise stated that she had been directed by Karen Brochu, Finance Director, to request that the BOA
send her authorization to sign docs on their behalf and she has received electronic signature permissions
from most Board members already. The BOA previously voted to grant all three (3) statutory exemptions
totaling $1550.00. The 2020-02 and 2019-9th commitments, payroll and February 11, 2020 minutes were
also approved.
• Postponement on FY20 RE & PP Abatement applications: Louise stated letters mailed to sixteen
(16) applicants who have filed RE abatement applications. The letter was a request for authorization to
extend the decision date to June 1st. She reported that the office has received twelve (12) back. Heather
explained on Friday, Governor Baker signed an act known as Chapter 53 of the acts of 2020. One of the
provisions would allow the BOS (Board of Selectmen) to extend the deadline for abatements until June
1st. Heather stated this act also allows the extension of all taxes due with no penalty, until June 30th. It is
recommended the BOS approve both and this is on the agenda for their upcoming meeting.
• FY 21 Tax Map Maintenance Contract: Louise stated the FY21 Tax Map Maintenance Contract was
previously reviewed and signed by Chairman Rich Letarte. The BOA voted to approve the FY21 map
contract with CAl. Additional signatures are required by the Town Manager & Finance Director prior to
mailing it back to CAl.
===PAGE 2===
section.
Rich moved on to the Scope of Services section (page 7). The proposed RFP currently states a minimum
of forty- eight (48) weeks at forty (40) hours per week with a minimum of thirty-two (32) hours onsite and
the rest dedicated to inspections. Rich stated he feels inspections are very important and the current
provider has "fallen behind....and has not been up to date". Louise stated the office is currently open
thirty-six (36) hours per week. After much discussion, members agreed to leave the wording as is.
Heather suggested we can add a provision so that the individuals or firms can provide what they are
willing to offer for services. There was some discussion on items four (4) and eight (8). Again, the BOA
was in agreement to leave wording as is.
BOA approved some minor changes to page eleven (11) and twelve (12) of the RFP. Heather stated we
can insert something about interviews and the process once the initial proposals are evaluated and rated
by the BOA. Heather also recommended guidelines for advertising. She said the final draft of the RFP will
be available soon for the BOA to finalize it and advertise it.
It was discussed an agreed upon by the BOA to advertise both the RFP and the Principal Assessor
position simultaneously. Heather stated the Principal Assessor position will need to be reviewed by the
Personnel Committee, due to the fact that the position is not presently under the Salary Administration
Plan. In order to meet with the Personnel Board to present this position, a job description will need to be
approved initially by the BOA. She also stated that the Personnel Board will need to vote on the Principal
Assessor position and also approve the salary grade. She encouraged the BOA to review a "draft" of the
job description and salary grade which was presented to them by the Assistant Town Manager / HR
Director and advised them to schedule a meeting as soon as possible. Julie stated the Personnel Board
has a tentative zoom meeting scheduled for Monday, April 13, 2020 at 5:30 pm. The BOA agreed that
they will review the job description within the week and share their suggestions and
recommendations. Louise stated that she will compile the Boards' recommendations and submit the draft
to Julie and the BOA for review on Monday morning, April 13th. Heather informed the Board that there is
appropriation allowable to start the position July 1s but will eventually need approval at the Special Town
Meeting in the fall.
Open Discussion: None.
Adjournment: A tentative meeting set for Monday April 13th at 1:00 pm.
Meeting adjourned at 2:30 pm.
Respectfully Submitted,
Sheila Craigen
Administrative Assessor (Temporarily appointed)
Office of the Board of Assessor
