===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes from the BOA (Board of Assessors) meeting held: June 14, 2022
Members present: Chairman, Richard H. Letarte, Board Members, Christine Higdon and Kevin Fish.
Also present Principal Assessor CJ Carroll, and Administrative Assessing Assistant, Sheila Craigen
Rich opened the meeting at 3:01 pm
Open Meeting:
• Kevin made a motion to approve the April 26, 2022 minutes. Christine seconded. All in favor.
• CJ updated the BOA with the ongoing issue with Nugen Capital Management. The BOA had questions
regarding solar pilot programs. CJ stated pilot programs are 20 (twenty) year terms and there are
nent. The BOA had questions
currently 3 (three) solar pilot programs in place. CJ has been working with Heather (Town Manager) and
has been doing research. He has contacted several towns local and comparable to Lunenburg to find out
how they assess and handle the terms of pilot agreements. The BOA members mutually agree
depreciation plus an escalation clause would be the preference.
• CJ stated both himself and Rich Letarte recently had a meeting with Heather. The Select Board is very
much in favor of a new program for Senior Tax Relief (in addition to the program already in place). The
new program would be based on Massachusetts Senior Circuit Breaker Tax Credit. Both CJ and Heather
have made the Select Board aware that this new program will greatly increase the clerical work in the
Assessors' office. There will be a need for extra administrative help. The Select Board does not seem
adverse to hiring additional part time help if needed.
• CJ stated he is currently working on a real estate abatement application that has recently been brought
to his attention. At this point, the application is deemed denied. The BOA voted in favor of leaving status
"as is" unless the applicant is able to produce sufficient documentation to their claim.
• Rich congratulated both Christine and Kevin on their re-election to the BOA and thanked them for their
service.
• BOA reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants and commitments.
Adjournment:
• Christine made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 4:05 pm. All in favor. Meeting adjourned
Respectly Sumited en
Sheila Craigen
Administrative Assessing Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
