===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes from the BOA (Board of Assessors) meeting held: November 2, 2022
Members present: Chairman, Richard H. Letarte, Board Members, Christine Higdon and Kevin Fish.
Also present Principal Assessor CJ Carroll and Administrative Assessing Assistant, Sheila Craigen
Rich opened the meeting at 2:32 pm
Open Meeting:
• Rich made a motion to approve the October 5, 2022 minutes. Kevin seconded. All in favor.
• CJ stated the Tax Classification hearing set for Tuesday, November 8. CJ distributed copies of his
reports which will be included in his presentation. Some discussion on the increase of both building and
land values in town. CJ stated all of our numbers have been certified with the state. The BOA approved
the numbers as presented.
CJ distributed permission forms for signature stamps as discussed in the October meeting. The Board
members agreed on an additional permission and all members signed the authorization. It was agreed
the Board will revisit the permission terms every new fiscal year.
• Several exemption applications were received since the last meeting. The BOA reviewed and approved
13 (thirteen) applications for people who have been in the program. 2 (two) new 41C applications were
reviewed and approved. The BOA requested additional documents for 2 (two) applications.
• Discussion on Chapter Land applications. CJ stated the applications are due October 1s of every year.
To date, there are 3 (three) 61B applications and 3 (three) 61A applications not returned. After much
discussion, the BOA agreed to give a courtesy extension. CJ stated there are also 3 (three) 61A
applicants that did not file the required schedule "F" with their applications. The Board determined this
unacceptable. Letters will be sent to all from the office accordingly. Some discussion on an applicant
trying to get back into the program. The Board would like an inspection of the property before making a
decision.
• BOA reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants and commitments.
Adjournment:
• Meeting adjourned at 4:23 pm.
Sheila Craigen
Administrative Assessing Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
