===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Principal Assessor CJ Carroll and Administrative Assessing Assistant, Sheila Craigen
Rich opened the meeting at 2:35 pm
Open Meeting:
• Kevin made a motion to approve the November 2, 2022 minutes. Rich seconded. All in favor.
• Cu stated the FY 23 tax rate has been set at $14.62. Some discussion on the significant increase of property values
and how it resulted in a lower tax rate this fiscal year. CJ talked about current and future market values and the effect
it will have in upcoming years. CJ answered questions and stated his power point from the Classification Hearing is
posted on the Assessors page on the Town Website.
CJ stated he is currently working on the real estate bill file for FY 23 actuals (3rd & 4"h qtr. tax bills). His goal is to
have the Assessors end finalized by December 16.
CJ stated MVE (Motor Vehicle Excise) commitment #6 just went out with a January 3rd due date.
CJ stated our Data Collection Project has started. Currently, we have 2 (two) inspectors in town. The Data Collection
notice is posted on both the Town Website and Public Notice at Town Hall. The Lunenburg Police Dept. is aware and
they have the necessary information should residents have any concern. CJ stated he himself has done some follow
up inspections and we are off to a very good start. These inspections are weather dependent. Snow and slippery
conditions may hinder our April time line.
a stated he is currently doing research, working on an estimate of value for Lufa Farms. The design for this new
commercial property is an 800k (eight hundred thousand) square foot, 2 (two level greenhouse with a 400k footprint
• Sheila stated one additional exemption application received since the last meeting. The BOA reviewed and
approved the application.
• Discussion on Chapter Land applications. The Board is not happy with late filing (due date October 1s' annually),
incomplete applications and lack of supporting documents. There was also discussion regarding the property on
Gilchrest St. in which CJ and Rich did an onsite inspection. Applications were approved.
A unanimous vote was made regarding the next fiscal year. A letter will be included with the applications to define
the obligations of the applicant.
• BOA reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants and commitments.
• Rich stated he is leaving for Florida January 15th and will return February 14t. He will be leaving again March 4th.
Adjournment:
• CJ stated we may receive more real estate abatement applications than normal. We may want to consider 2 (two)
meetings in February.
Kevin made a motion to adjourn at 3:40 pm. All in favor.
Respectully submitted,
Sheila Craigen
Administrative Assessing Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
