===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes from the BOA (Board of Assessors) meeting held: October 5, 2022
Members present: Chairman, Richard H. Letarte, Board Members, Christine Higdon and Kevin Fish.
Also present Principal Assessor CJ Carroll and Administrative Assessing Assistant, Sheila Craigen
Rich opened the meeting at 2:35 pm
Open Meeting:
• Christine made a motion to approve the September 7, 2022 minutes. Kevin seconded. All in favor.
• CJ stated he has been working on new growth which has been somewhat of a challenge given the
turnover in staff over the past few years. The numbers for both Real Estate and Personal Property are
nearly finalized. Some discussion on current numbers and future growth. The BOA thanked CJ for his
hard work.
Cu stated, this week, he completed the Assessors part in the new motor vehicle commitment received
from Kelley & Ryan. Motor vehicle commitment # 5 should be going out soon.
Some discussion on Senior Tax Relief/Circuit Breaker Program. CJ stated he recently talked to Sue
Doherty (Council on Aging) about the program. The Select Board is pursuing a new program for Senior
Tax Relief (in addition to the program already in place). It is expected this will be on the agenda for Town
Meeting held in the spring.
Co stated the RFP (Request for Proposal) is done and posted in the Lunenburg Ledger.
Some discussion on BOA signatures. A proposal was made to order signature stamps. CJ stated he can
draft a permission form, whatever is agreeable with the BOA, as to when stamps are acceptable for use.
It is also agreed signature stamps will be in a locked and secure area when not in use.
• Several exemption applications were received since the last meeting. The BOA reviewed and approved
applications for people who have been in the program. Additional paperwork was received, as requested,
for a new V3 clause 22e. The new application was approved. Also approved was a new application for
V22d.
• CJ presented 46 (forty-six) completed applications for Chapter Land. After much discussion, the Board
agreed they would like to do some research to familiarize themselves with the program. A unanimous
vote was made to postpone decisions on all of the chapter applications.
• BOA reviewed and approved current expense vouchers, abatements, warrants and commitments.
Adjournment:
• CJ proposed the next meeting be held Wednesday, November 2, 2022. Members agreed. Christine
made a motion to adjourn at 3:55 pm. All in favor.
Sheila Craigen
Administrative Assessing
ssistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
