===PAGE 1===
MINUTES  
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2023 
6:30 PM             
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL 
17 MAIN ST. 
 
Present Members: Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Chair Brian Laffond, Clerk John Rabbitt, Interim 
Principal Assessor Rena Swezey. 
CALL TO ORDER 
The meeting opened at 6:30 PM. 
OPENING PUBLIC COMMENT  
 Board Comment: 
o John Rabbit inquires if there is anyone admitting people into the Zoom meeting. 
Eric states he wasn’t provided a Zoom link and there wasn’t one on the agenda. 
Ultimately, a Zoom meeting was successfully created. 
o John Rabbitt shares DLS has a new tax reform bill. This will raise the maximum 
senior work off for abatements from 1,500 to 2,000 starting in 2025. 
Additionally, DLS Tax Reform also includes assistance for Low Income Housing 
Property Owners.  
o John Rabbitt shares that the state has guidelines to create compelling and 
comprehensive tax rate and classification presentations. 
 Public Comment: No public comment. 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 Approve Minutes of September 27, 2023, and October 11, 2023 
o The minutes from September 27, 2023, were amended as follows: 
 Corrected the spelling of Sarah Cammer’s last name under the future agenda 
topics. 
 Corrected spelling of Brian Laffond’s last name under board comment. 
 Corrected spelling of Nate Cramer’s last name. 
 All in favor needed to be added under the reorganization of the board. 
o Motion by Sarah Cammer to approve amended minutes from the September 27, 
2023, meeting, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor. 
o Due to a technical issue, there is a large gap in the meeting minutes from 
October 11, 2023. Brian Laffond and Rena Swezey will try to recreate and fill in 
those gaps.  
 
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Payroll, etc. 
o Motion to approve annual membership fee for Massachusetts Associates of 
Assessing Offices by John Rabbitt, seconded by Sarah Cammer. All in favor 
o Motion to approve RRC personal property software for fiscal 2024 by John 
Rabbitt, seconded by Sarah Cammer. All in favor. 
===PAGE 2===
o Motion to approve fee from Vision Government Solutions for fiscal 2023 by 
Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor. 
o Motion to approve the bill for advertising the principal assessor's position by 
Sarah Cammer, seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor 
o Motion to approve two invoices from MFS by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John 
Rabbitt. All in favor. 
o Motion to approve WB Mason bill for office supplies by Sarah Cammer, 
seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor. 
o Brian Laffond signed the postage fees for the Vision cards. 
o Motor vehicle abatements signed. 
 
 Status Report from Interim Principal Assessor  
 Discussion – Add Seasonal Use Cottage, Determine rate. 
o Rena Swezey suggested to CJ last winter that seasonal cottages should be added 
to the database. A seasonal cottage is defined as minimal, seasonally used with 
interior walls that aren’t finished. Brian questions if one of the criteria included is 
lack of central heat and Rena Swezey confirms. John Rabbitt pointed out the 
team voted and approved a definition of a Cottage to include dimensions (600 
SqFt as well as lack of central heating.  Team was to add this into Policies 
Definitions.  
o Rena Swezey contacted other communities to gain additional information. The 
seasonal cottage price per square foot locally is as follows: Groton is $63 per 
square foot, Littleton is $68.50 per square foot, and Ashburnham is $95 per 
square foot. 
o Rena Swezey spoke with Nate Cramer, and they agreed that $65 per square foot 
is a fair number for fiscal 2024.   
o Motion to approve the $65 per square foot rate for seasonal cottages by John 
Rabbitt, seconded by Sarah Cammer. All in favor. 
 
 Discussion on Estimated New Growth for FY24 
o Rena Swezey has finished all building permits for new construction. The final 
number for new growth is $33,190,000 with total tax dollars being $484,203. 
o Motion by John Rabbitt to support the 400,000-dollar actual bill to get the new 
growth proposed by Heather Lemieux, seconded by Sarah Cammer. All in favor. 
 
 How to handle minutes of Executive Sessions. 
There was a brief discussion with Heather Lemieux regarding the minutes from the 
executive session. The motions to approve minutes are made during the executive 
session. 
 
 Status of Community Outreach  
 Senior Center  
   Status of requests for improved collaboration with the Town Manager. 
 
===PAGE 3===
 Insert for Q3 Property Tax Bills 
Contact needs to be made with DOR about the third quarter billing. 
Heather Lemieux was put in touch with the town administrator who put her in 
touch with their treasure collection. A sample language was provided to Heather 
Lemieux to utilize to create a draft insert. This would need to be submitted by 
the beginning of December. This topic will be put on the agenda for November 
20th to discuss further.  
 Existing Contracts 
An electronic folder is being created. This would include the contracts with 
Vision for the certification of values project, Vision camera software, Near Maps 
software. 
 
 Future RFP Development 
The board shares an interest in and wants to participate in future RFP 
developments. 
 
APPOINTMENT - 7:00 p.m. 
 Intros/ Updates – Vision /MFS: Mike Tarello, Nate Cramer, Heather Lemieux 
o Mike Tarello from Vision Government Solution has started to go through 
databases pulling records, sales information, land tables, building tables, 
depreciation schedules, and cost rates. Tarello has worked on the LA4 report and 
has been adding the data to the master file.  
o Once preliminary values are approved there will be a field review. The team will 
then review sales and then compare rates to the current values then compare 
rates to sales.   
o John Rabbitt questions the market value and asks to add granularity to the 
report. 
o Brian Laffond questions if there is a list of criteria that explains what is good, 
better, and best. Mike Tarello will set up a data collection guide that includes 
descriptions and field review guidelines. 
o Sarah Cammer asks Mike Tarello how his company will determine qualifying and 
non-qualifying sales.  Mike Tarello gives several examples of unqualified sales: 
family sales, court settlements, estate sales, multiple parcels, intercorporate, 
and significant additions. 
o John Rabbitt shares that CJ was unable to keep up with taking off non-qualified 
sales from 2022. The board is to review the MLS and then give a list to Mike 
Tarello of any properties not showing up on MLS. 
o Sarah Cammer asks, when there is variation in quartiles percents, how will it be 
reconciled. 
o Brian Laffond asks if the folder previously referred to by Mike Tarello is a physical 
folder or virtual. Mike Tarello confirms both are made and a virtual appraisal file 
will be made available to the board. 
o John Rabbitt reviewed the “5 Year Assessment Year Review Agreement”, specific 
to Project Commitments made by the Twon of Lunenburg to Vision.  Based on 
===PAGE 4===
Mike’s and Rena’s confirmations; the project is on schedule and Lunenburg has 
provided all the agreed information required in the contract.   
 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
 Meeting with Nate Cramer of MFS 
o The board needs to prepare questions for an in-depth meeting with Nate Cramer 
of MFS on November 20, 2023.  Currently, Nate Cramer has been working on a 
few ATB cases that were filed and working with Rena Swezey to get documents 
submitted to Gateway. 
o John Rabbitt has questions related to traffic adjustments and agrees to research 
examples from other towns. Nate Cramer expressed that these adjustments are 
sometimes listed on the site index. 
o John Rabbitt asks if Nate Cramer and MFS have a manual or portfolio. Nate 
Cramer states they do almost anything related to assessing but will give a list to 
Rena Swezey to distribute.  
o Nate- there is a webpage. Do almost anything related to assessing. Nate can give 
a comprehensive list to Rena to distribute. 
o Brian Laffond plans to get a copy of questions to Nate Cramer prior to the next 
meeting on November 20th. 
 
 Discuss responses to extensive citizen questions. - i.e. Carl Derner.  
o There have been many questions and inquiries submitted by citizens. The board 
will consolidate questions and put the answers on the webpage. Further 
discussion is tabled for another meeting.   
 
FUTURE AGENDA TOPICS 
Review and Approve Senior / Veterans Exemptions 
 Discuss implications for FY2024 
 Investigation 41C regarding seniors exemptions.  
o Review and Approve Chapter Land Exemptions 
o Software – Xembly discussion 
o Policy Establishment / Review 
 Land Value Policies / Propose Criteria. 
 Building Value Policies / Propose Criteria:  New Categories  
 Data Storage. (i.e. Reason for previous approval of abatement.)   
 Document Control  
MEETING SCHEDULE 
The next meeting is November 20, 2023. 
 
CLOSING PUBLIC COMMENT  
===PAGE 5===
 Public Comment:   
o Carl Luck- Sunset Lane- thanks the board and is happy that a new category 
regarding cottages was created. 
 Board Comment: No board comments. 
 
ADJOURN TO EXECUTIVE SESSION – Motion to Adjourn by Sarah Cammer, seconded by John 
Rabbitt to enter into Executive Sessions not to return to Open Session after exiting Executive 
Sessions. All in favor. 
 
ADJOURN  
The meeting closed at 9PM. 
 