===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Channel:
The meeting was opened at 3:02 PM
Members Present: Chairman Richard Letarte, Board Member Kevin Fish, Board Member
Christine Higdon, Principal Access CJ Carroll, Interim Principal Assessor Rena Swezey,
Administrative Assessing Assistant Sheila Craigen.
Public Comment
Phyllis Luck - 50 Sunset Lane- shared that she sent a letter to the board on April 14th with
suggestions that may help the abatement process run smoothly. Some suggestions included
making the inspection report and suggested property values be made available to the property
owner. Phyllis raised questions about how the abatement process will be discussed/finalized,
when will residents to informed on how the abatement process will work, and if there are any
opinions about the suggestions listed in their letter. The board members stated that these
questions will be addressed during the executive session today.
Carl Luck - 50 Sunset Lane - has raised concerns that the above questions are not appropriate
for the executive session. He believes the questions posed by Phyllis would violate open
meeting law if discussed during an executive meeting and should be discussed in an open
session. Unless there is discussion about a specific abatement information should be made
available to the public and believes the executive sessions should be recorded and made
available to the public. Carl did agree that the executive session should be used to discuss
abatement on non-lake properties. The board doesn't have any response to the raised
questions as they are awaiting the report and will investigate the open meeting laws. John
Rabbitt doesn't believe that discussing the abatement process would constitute or divulge any
personal data which would be the reason for going into executive session. John Rabbitt also
expresses that he wants citizens to be able to patriciate and see as much information excluding
any personal data. A motion to tape the executive session and be made available at a later
point was approved by Kevin Fish, seconded by Richard Letarte. Carl thanks the board for
making as much information available during the public comment.
Lou Franco - Select Board Member - shares his information in relation to what should be
discussed in the nonexecutive session versus the executive session. Lou states that anything
that goes to procedure and any deliberations you have to the process is public discourse. He
===PAGE 2===
and discuss feedback with the Board of Assessors prior to the report being released. Lou Franco
agrees that general impressions can be brought up without names and addresses and that
general trends can and must be discussed. Richard Letarte agrees to discuss specific addresses
only while they are in the executive session. Kevin Fish states the report will be made public
once it has been finalized. Richard Letarte asks Nate Cramer several questions including
whether the homeowners be issued a revised tax bill, whether the homeowners be advised of
the new value prior to the subsequent abatement issue, and when will the full report be
completed. Nate Cramer states after the edits from today's meeting are updated then the
report will be complete. Previously, Nate Cramer wanted to submit the report to the
Department of Revenue since they will be seeing the reports in the fall to review but doesn't
feel that needs to be done prior.
Dave McDonald - 155 Island Road - agrees that more information can be made available to the
public while certain information should remain confidential. Dave thanks Christine, Nate, and
the board for their hard work. He suggested that the public comments should be limited to 3
minutes and there should be some research done regarding rules.
The signing of expense vouchers, motor vehicle abatements, and payroll by Richard Letarte and
Kevin Fish.
Adjournment
Motion to adjourn and enter into executive session and not return to the open meeting by
Kevin Fish, Seconded by Richard Letarte. All in favor.
Meeting adjourned at 4:05 PM.
Executive Session
Executive session minutes will not be released.
