===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Channel.
The meeting was opened at 3:00 PM.
Members Present: Principal Access CJ. Carroll, Administrative Assessing Assistant Sheila Craigen,
Board Member Kevin Fish, Board Member Christine Higdon, Chairman Richard Letarte, Interim
Principal Assessor Rena Swezey.
Approval of Meeting Minutes
Motion to review and approve minutes from the March 28, 2023, meeting. Motion to approve
by Kevin Fish, seconded by Richard Letarte. The minutes have been approved.
Abatement Process Update
Currently, over 100 abatement applications have been received.
There was a discussion to determine the procedure to be used regarding the abatement
process. The 3 options available are:
1. Full executive session.
2. General meeting with public comment. This consists of new information only, a
speaking limit of 2 minutes per person, and only to take place for 1 hour per meeting. If
residents didn't have a chance to speak during the hour, then they will be moved on to
the next meeting.
3. Participation in the executive session.
Motion to proceed with option 2 by Kevin Fish, seconded by Richard Letarte.
Public Comment
Lou Franco - 260 Arbor Street- inquired how public comments can be made during public
meetings since abatements are confidential. Kevin Fish states that only new information will be
presented that was previously unknown and not on the application.
Bill Hudson - 90 Hemlock Drive- wants to know if applications are currently being reviewed and
how the applicants are going to know if they are 1 of the 100 applications being reviewed
during the meeting. Richard Letarte states that if the parcel has been accessed an adjustment
===PAGE 2===
doesn't list the quality of the property. Renee states that homeowners need to know the value
of their home and the information that led to that current assessment. Richard Letarte responds
with if you are unhappy with the results you must go to the ATB. Renee inquires how people will
know when their abatement hearing is being held. Richard Letarte says essentially individuals
need to come to every meeting to get their public comments heard.
Dave McDonald - questioned if Nate Cramer gave recommendations for individual houses for
tax bills. The board does not know the answer. Dave McDonald responds that people are
already getting their bills for next year and requested a letter be sent to homeowners to explain
to the banks that there is an error. This wasn't done and the board doesn't intend to write
letters to homeowners to then give to their banks. Dave McDonald inquires if Nate Cramer
made a recommendation to the board for his specific property. Richard Letarte confirms there
was a recommendation, and chances are those recommendations will likely be put into place.
Dave McDonald wants to know why homeowners can't see the recommendations and wants to
know when a copy of the report be available. The board responds that this isn't the way that
the abatement process works. The abatement meeting comes first and once completed the
results are presented to the homeowner. Lastly, Dave McDonald asks what the schedule will be,
when will the hearings be held, and how many days during the week applications will be
reviewed. Richard Letarte is unable to give an answer but states the abatements will start at 4
om and will conclude after 1 hour.
Bill Hudson - 90 Hemlock Drive - wants to know which properties are considered good or
average. The board states they already have the information and it's being reviewed. Richard
Letarte confirms that the abatement process must first go through the Board of Assessors to be
approved or denied. The homeowner will receive a letter containing the amount of the
abatement.
Rich Pearson - inquires if individual reports are available or if it's only general information. Also
wants to know if the board is going by percentages and looking at the notes provided. Kevin Fish
states that each property is being looked at individually.
Tom Alonzo - believes that the homeowners should get their individual reports before their
abatement hearing. Tom Alonzo wants to know how the process can be streamlined but also
include the homeowner. Richard Letarte states the easiest way is to give the board time to
review and get letters sent out. Homeowners should receive their letters within a month. Lastly,
===PAGE 3===
Kevin Fish, Seconded by Richard Letarte. All in favor.
The meeting adjourned at 3:31 PM.
