===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Channel.
The meeting was opened at 4:00 PM.
Members Present: Administrative Assessing Assistant Sheila Craigen, Board Member Kevin Fish,
Chairman Richard Letarte, Board Member John Rabbitt, Interim Principal Assessor Rena Swezey.
Public Comment
Unknown resident- inquiries about what procedural changes are being made to make sure this
will never happen again. Questions who reviews and analyzes data prior to the DOR
(Department of Revenue) receiving it. Expressed concern that the meetings are scheduled at
unresponsible times.
Appointment of the interim assessor - agreed with what occurred by CJ Carroll.
Eric Pettus - 43 Hemlock Terrace- thanks the board for all the work to fix the mess. Eric Pettus
wants to know who hired CJ Carroll and asks if the board members are the ones who will
appoint the new assessor. Calls into question the competency of the town manager and wants
an investigation into what occurred. When Eric Pettus bought his house in 2015 the acreage on
is land card was 0.9 when in actuality it is .032. After a trio to the Assessors Office
, prior to this
meeting, the land card is still showing the incorrect acreage. Eric Pettus did provide the deed to
his land with his abatement.
Jonah Potter Kiola - 132 Hemlock Drive- thanks the board for their efforts regarding the
abatement process. Expresses that she is opposed to Rena Swezey being appointed as the
interim assessor because she was ineffective and unfairly over evaluating people's property in
Groton and in other towns. Jonah Potter Kiola brings up a comment said by Rena Swezey to
another member of the public and thinks if the board feels Rena Swezey is a good choice, then
maybe they need to investigate getting new assessors or a new town manager.
Dave McDonald - Island Road - explains that the public is outraged and believes that the town
board needs to be reset with 3 new members. Dave McDonald also shares that he disagrees
with Rena Swezey being appointed as the new assessor.
Carl Derner - 291 Sunset Lane - questions why public comment takes place prior to the meeting
agenda. Carl Derner wants to know why they are using a principal accessor as opposed to an
===PAGE 2===
her prior troubled history with Groton. Sue Joel suggests that an outside contractor should have
been hired as the town had previously done.
John Rabbitt - informs residents that Zoom was turned off at the start of the meeting. An
additional meeting will be held to include the other members who were on Zoom to give
comments. Dave McDonald- states the agenda was posted without the Zoom link. All prior
meetings have had a Zoom option. John Rabbitt says this was just an error and an oversight.
Appointment of Interim Principal Assessor
Heather Lemieux has submitted a notice of appointment to ratify Rena Swezey as interim
principal assessor. A full-time replacement has been advertised but hasn't been filled and
someone is needed to take over until someone is found. There has been contact with MFS
regarding municipal finance service. Heather Lemieux assures residents and the board that
checks and balances are being put into place. Rena Swezey's qualifications include 30 years as
an assessor and has provided prior assistance to the town.
John Rabbitt refers to the town charter. The appointment of the principal assessor by the town
manager shall be effective on the 15th day of the following day of the notice. Unless a board of
assessors shall within that period by a majority vote all its members reject such appointment or
appointment sooner and reject the appointment. If it's rejected, we are back to ground zero.
The board has received the resume and CV for Rena Swezey and thinks in advance the board
should be able to ask her questions. John Rabbitt raises the issue of why members aren't
granted the option to question potential employees. John Rabbitt believes if the process is
trying to be improved then residents and board members should be given time to interview the
individual. In John Rabbit's prior experience on boards the process to hire someone there
needs to be a technical review. This would consist of bringing all the employees who are going
to work with them to sit down, and express concern. The job description of the principal
assessor is that they work under the direction of the Board of Assessors to serve the taxpayers.
Heather Lemieux agrees to consider the suggestions, but it goes against the processes that are
in the charter. There is a shortage of assessors. John Rabbitt says that based on all of the factors
they really don't have much of a choice but to hire Rena Swezey. There was a discussion about
Nate Cramer agreeing to come and assist the town and Heather Lemieux agrees that there is a
verbal agreement. Heather Lemieux also wants to investigate a hybrid model to bring in
professional consultants to assist office staff and provide additional oversite.
===PAGE 3===
Hic licchis au vulicu al v•te l lvi.
