===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Location: In person at Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel
Members present: Chairman, Richard H. Letarte, Board Members, Christine Higdon and Kevin Fish.
Also present Principal Assessor CJ Carroll, Rena Swezey and Administrative Assessing Assistant, Sheila
Craigen
Also present: Member of Lunenburg Select Board, Lou Franco
Lou Franco opened the meeting at 3:02 pm. For clarification, Lou explained it was determined and
announced at previous SB (Select Board) meetings that he will be serving as a facilitator of meetings of
the Lunenburg BOA, relative to the lakefront tax situation. Lou explained his limited functions working with
the BOA Chairman. Functions to include moving meetings through the agendas and moderating public
comment. With permission from the BOA Chairman, Lou may respond to questions or give opinions if
appropriate. Lou stated he does not have the power to make or second motions or to vote. Lou stated he
will not be involved in any executive sessions.
Christine spoke extensively with statements, questions and concerns regarding the decision of a
moderator to the BOA. Ultimately, Kevin made a motion to appoint Lou Franco as a temporary moderator,
to the BOA through the lakefront abatement process. Rich seconded the motion. Christine continued
conversation with concerns regarding the agreement. A new vote ensued with the outcome of 2 (two) in
favor and 1 (one) opposed to appoint Lou Franco as a temporary moderator with an amendment to the
agreement.
Open Meeting:
• Christine made a motion to approve the February 22, 2023 minutes. All in favor.
Public Comment
• Phyllis Luck had questions, stated concerns and gave opinions regarding the abatement process. Carl
Luck made comments to the BOA regarding the handling of the investigation. Carl also expressed
concerns regarding the agenda and the abatement process. John Rabbit had questions concerning
procedures and made suggestions for future handling.
Adjournment:
• Christine made a motion at 4:09 pm to enter into executive session and not to return into open session
after exiting executive session. All in favor.
Executive Session:
• Executive session minutes will not be released.
respectrully Submitted
Sheila Craigen
Administrative Assessing Assistant
Office of the Board of Assessors
