===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Location: In person at the Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access
Channel.
The meeting opened at 2:30 PM.
Members Present: Administrative Assessing Assistant Sheila Craigen, Board Member Kevin Fish,
Chairman Richard Letarte, Board Member John Rabbitt, Interim Principal Assessor Rena Swezey.
Board Member Comment
John Rabbitt nominated Kevin Fish for Vice Chairman, but Kevin Fish declined. John Rabbitt then
nominated Kevn Fish for the Clerk position. John Rabbitt nominated himself for the Vice Chair
position.
John Rabbitt suggests creating a meeting protocol and wants to discuss the frequency of
meetings. John Rabbitt also recommends getting more help or resources to fix the mess. There
are only 1 and a half people in the office while there should be 4.
Public Comment
Dave McDonald - 155 Island Road - Inquires as to why the evaluation of the house went up and
whether it was town-wide or based on the type of property. Dave McDonald also inquires if an
official judgment has been made on his property. Richard Letarte explains that the increase was
townwide based on the type of property and the square footage. The reason given by the board
for the increase is the price of construction per square foot has risen. Dave McDonald confirms
there has been no construction since 1995. The Board states he should receive an answer by the
end of the week regarding the abatement decision. Rena Swezey has a brief discussion
regarding the depreciation schedule. The problem is that his property changed from
conventional to contemporary. All conventional properties' prices per square foot went from
129 to 155 dollars. Dave McDonald wants to know how they come up with estimated taxes.
Rena Swezey states that they are based on the previous year's tax rate and the previous year's
value.
Meeting Protocol
John Rabbitt suggests an update to the meeting protocol. After reviewing other boards John
Rabbitt feels their meetings are run differently. Suggestions for additional items to be added to
===PAGE 2===
as placeholders but meetings can be canceled if they are not needed.
Review and approval of expense vouchers, motor vehicle abatements, and payroll from July.
Signed by Richard Letarte and John Rabbitt.
Discuss Office Functions
Rena Swezey confirms that everything is proceeding as normal. Rena Swezey says the sales
verification letters are ready to be sent out and the sales questionnaire is ready to be emailed.
John Rabbitt inquires if property cards are available, collected, and completed.
Adjournment
Motion to adjourn and enter into executive session and not return to the open meeting by
Kevin Fish, Seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
The meeting adjourned at 3:15 PM.
