===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Location: In person at the Lunenburg Town Hall and broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access
Channel.
The meeting was opened at 2:30 PM.
Members Present: Administrative Assessing Assistant Sheila Craigen, Board Member Kevin Fish,
Chairman Richard Letarte, Board Member John Rabbitt, Interim Principal Assessor Rena Swezey.
Public Comment
Carl Luck -50 Sunset Lane- questions whether inspections are primarily to confirm or certify
that the information collected for every house is correct. Also, questions about what the outline
is and how the tiers for a property are being determined. Rena Swezey states that the site index
used by Nate Cramer will be put into place. Going forward they must determine what the dollar
per square foot on the waterfront properties will be and whether they have increased or
decreased by the 2022 sales. The options for grading will be good, average, and below average.
John Rabbitt inquires if there are policy statements that can be provided for the public to read.
Carl Luck states that not all lakefront properties were looked at only the ones who requested an
abatement. Carl Luck wants to know how a rating can be made without an inspection since
there is no baseline. Rena Swezey says Vision will be doing a full field review that includes
driving down every street, but they won't be going into houses.
Discuss Office Function
Richard Letarte states that the main function of the BOA is to review payments for accounts
payable for payroll, abatement requests, excise tax abatements, and exemptions such as low-
income, elderly, and veterans.
John Rabbitt has a question related to town mapping. Residents have said that their property
line is off or inaccurate. Rena Sweney state mapping company is only for tax purposes. If there
are discrepancies, then residents need to hire a land surveyor. If residents know it's incorrect,
they need to contact Rena Swezey.
Discuss Office Work Plan
Rena Swezey wants the board to make a motion and take a vote to send out third-quarter
estimated tax bills. This needs to be completed by August. Motion to send out estimated 3rd
===PAGE 2===
states that there is a comment section on the property cards that Vision completes.
Rena Swezey wants to get ready for recertification. This includes any new houses that have been
built in the last year. This information needs to be added to the system since homeowners will
eventually have supplemental tax bills for the building only.
Sales verification forms are going to be sent to everyone who bought a property in 2022 since
that is the target year. Rena Swezey anticipates having all the forms mailed out by the middle of
September.
Rena Swezey has started a data card collection program that includes post-sales inspection.
The data collection manual will also include the guidelines for house type, conditions, and
grading. This will at some point need to be turned over to the Department of Revenue. Rena
Sweezy will work with Vision to review all the building permits and properties sold last year..
Review and Approval of Expense Vouchers
Kevin Fish and Richard Letarte reviewed and signed the expense vouchers.
Adjournment
Motion to adjourn and enter into executive session and not return to the open meeting by
Kevin Fish, Seconded by John Rabbitt. All in favor.
The meeting adjourned at 3:30 PM.
