===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Channel.
The meeting was opened at 3:00 PM.
Members Present: Chairman Richard Letarte, Board Member Kevin Fish, Board Member
Christine Higdon, Principal Access CJ Carroll, Interim Principal Assessor Rena Swezey.
• Open Meeting
Veterans' exemption applications were signed by Richard Letarte and Kevin Fish but not shown
to the public as they are confidential. Motor vehicle applications were signed by Richard Letarte
and Kevin Fish.
A 15-minute break was held for the board members to review the MES report independently.
Report from MFS
A brief discussion about the amount listed for question 2 regarding the circuit breaker.
Additional information is needed from DOR regarding this discussion.
The MFS reports will be available in the Assessors Office. This is only a general report with no
specifics on individual properties. The report details the history, building values, land values,
and recommendations.
Public Comment
Gina Marie Leone- 52 Pearl Street- inquiring to confirm that there is no private information
available on the MFS report. Regarding the spreadsheet, Gina Marie Leone wants to know if
Nate Cramer would be able to hide confidential information such as phone numbers, etc. That
way the information will be available right away as opposed to the turnaround rate of editing
out that information. Kevin Fish confirms there won't be any private information listed on the
spreadsheet and the time frame for redated copies to become available is unknown.
Phyllis & Carl Luck -55 Sunset Lane- wants to know what the effect of this report will be on the
abatement process and when will the Board of Assessors meet to discuss how the abatement
process will proceed. Richard Letarte believes there won't be much of an effect as the report
explains how they came up with the numbers. Phyllis Luck asks if they still need to go to the
abatement hearing or if they're happy with the adjustment do you still need to go to an
abatement hearing. Richard Letarte reviews the 3 available options. The options consist of
===PAGE 2===
Dave McDonald - 155 Island Road - wants to know if the form will be available today in the
Assessors Office. Kevin Fish shares that it will be posted online on the Assessors webpage but
may take a little bit to get physical copies in the office. Dave McDonald has heard that recently
people are finding assessors on their property and leaving blue cards behind. Kevin Fish
confirms that has received similar information but hasn't had a chance to fully explore that
information.
Alex Yawer- 226 Sunset Lane- questioned whether the abatements will be done individually or
across the board. Richard Letarte confirms that there will be a discussion on every single
abatement and will use Nate Cramer's suggestions as a basis.
Motion to Approve Report from MFS
Kevin Fish makes a motion to approve the report from MFS for the town of Lunenburg
Massachusetts waterfront properties, seconded by Richard Letarte. The motion is approved.
Adjournment
Motion to adjourn and enter into executive session and not return to the open meeting by
Kevin Fish, Seconded by Richard Letarte. All in favor.
The meeting adjourned at 3:43 PM.
