===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG  
BOARD OF ASSESSORS MEETING 
NOTICE 
 
 
 
           
TUESDAY, AUGUST 1, 2023 
2:30 PM             
REMOTE MEETING VIA ZOOM FOR OPEN SESSION 
 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised 
that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live over the Lunenburg Public 
Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/) 
and will be uploaded to the LunenburgAccess YouTube after the meeting. 
 
The following information is also provided for members of the public that would like 
to attend the meeting remotely: To Access the Meeting Remotely: From a computer, 
please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://zoom.us/j/7927370353 or from a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 
475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 792-737- 0353 # If you have not registered with 
Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address. 
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to 
request to speak after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” 
feature to request to speak. 
 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those 
reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not 
all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
 
CALL TO ORDER 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT  
 
OPEN MEETING 
  
 Review and Approval of Expense Vouchers, Motor Vehicle Abatements and Payroll 
 Discuss Office Functions 
 
   
  
EXECUTIVE SESSION – Motion to enter into Executive Session and not to return into 
Open Session after exiting Executive Session.   Enter executive session under Purpose 
7: "To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special law or federal 
grant-in-aid requirements"   
===PAGE 2===
 "Applications for abatement or exemption under this chapter shall, except in 
proceedings before the county commissioners, the appellate tax board or a court of the 
commonwealth, be open only to the inspection of the assessors, the commissioner, the 
deputies, clerks and assistants of either the assessors or the commissioner and such 
other officials or designated private auditors of the commonwealth." 
CH59 S60 of MGL is the law being cited. 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
        
     
 
 
 
 
 
 