===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
April 4, 2023
TOWN HALL, 17 Main Street and via Zoom
Board of Assessors present: Kevin Fish, Christine Higdon, Richard Letarte (via ZOOM)
Select Board Present:  Michael-Ray Jeffreys, Chairman; Tom Alonzo, Vice Chairman; Lou Franco, 
Clerk; Heather Sroka
Also Present: Heather Lemieux, Town Manager; Carol Archambault, Corrine Scouten, Donna 
Fortune, Sue Andrews, William Lakso, Jennifer Sanderson, Jacqueline Chabot, Christopher Sullivan
Meeting was opened at 7:12
Mr . Jeffreys asked everyone to stand for the  Pledge of Allegiance. He announced in  accordance
with the requirements  of the  Open  Meeting  Law,  please be  advised  that  thi s  meeting is being  
recorded  and broadcast  live over the  Lunenburg public  access  channel and Facebook Live and 
it will be uploaded to the  Lunenburg public access YouTube channel within 24 hours after the  
meeting.
The  agenda lists  all the  topics  which may  be  discussed at this  meeting  and are those  
reason ab ly anticipated   by the  Chair . Votes  may be  taken  as  a r es ult  of these  discussions.  Not  
all  items  listed may  in  fact  be  discussed and other  items  not  listed   may  also  be  brought   up  for  
discussion   to  the  extent  permitted   by  the  Open  Meeting   L a w .
PUBLIC   C O M M E N T :
Phyllis  Luck, 50 Sunset Lane, inquired about the  tax assessment in ves tigation,  asking if  Town  
Counsel had communicated   with the  Dept.  of  Revenue (DOR)  regarding  the  mailin g  dates  of  the  
tax  bills  as  well as  how  the 135% assessment of the lake  front properties was determined.
Chip  Gershew, Laurel Lane, reported he  filed for an  abatement , had an  inspection but  when  he  
asked the  BOA office  what  came next  and  if  he  could sit on  his  abatement r ev iew,  he was  
informed   he  could not.  He  felt  he  h a d reasons  for  relief  and  wanted to  expres s  them.  Mr.  Jeffrey s  
stated those  qu es tion s  really  s hould be  addressed   by the Board of Asses sors (BOA).
Ms.  Lemieux  reported the  company doing  the  abatement inspections has  gone  throu g h  
around  207  to  date . They will be  presenting their recommendations  to  the  BOA possibly 
around April 23 rd .  The  conversation between  Town Counsel and DOR resulted in  finding 
there is  a two  part  decision ; the  date of the  mailing, because  the  person  responsible  for   the  
collection  of tax es  determines the  date  of  mailing  which  determines  when those  tax bill s  are  
due.
The  Treasurer/ collector has  determined bas ed on  the information provided there  is enough 
doubt  about the  contradictory evidence   between the  postal service  dates  and the  affidavit  
of   ma iling from our billing company   that she  will   be  relying on  the  January   6 th  date  as   the  
date of mailing.   What that means  in  essence  is  that  the  third and  fourth  quarter bills  will be  
due  May 1 , 2023  an d  no  interest  is  due on third quarter taxes b etween th e period of 
February 1st  and May 1 s t.
Mr. Alonzo stated state law is silent on how abatement hearings are handled, so they are 
completely within the purview of the BOA about how they handle them and your desire to 
===PAGE 2===
be in attendance is really up to their policy. But there's also no prohibition from the state 
that you can or can't be there for an abatement hearing.
WORKSHOP:   TAX   ASSESSMENT   INVESTIGATION   R E V IE W
Mr.  Letarte  called  the  Board of  Assessors  meeting to  order.  He  reported 207  abatement  
applications have been reviewed . Discussion ensued about letters being  sent to  property 
owners by the  BOA regarding extensions of their  abatements and  the  time  it  would take  for the  
BOA  to  review  those  abatement applications. Question  was asked  about public access  to  the  
BOA meetings. Mr. Letarte stated they  would have  to be limited to  20-30 minutes before the 
meeting due to  the  volume of applications . Our hands  are  tied  currently   because we  are 
awaiting for site visit reports from the inspectors.
Ms. Lemieux reported when she  spoke  with the  owner  of Municipal Finance Services  today 
they  said they've gone through 207  inspections so thus  far;  they're expected   to  do  another 60 
this  Friday and Saturday. He's working  on tables  for  recommendations  and they're  also  working
with  Vision  to  create  a  dummy  valuation table for  those recommendations  and those  
inspections. I think the  expectation is the  ones that have been done by April  23 rd .  I want to  
make  sure  to  clarify that  versus the  400  applications; they  haven't done  400  inspections  so  I 
wouldn't anticipate that  they  would have  that  done  by  April 23 rd .  That's  why  extension letters  
are  being  sent  out. So I think you're right they're halfway there.
Question  was  asked in  what  order the  inspections  are  being  done.  Ms.  Lemieux stated they  are  
going  out  in  both order  of receipt and mutual neighborhood areas. Mr.  Alonzo asked for  
clarification on  the  question regarding property owners being  able  to  attend the  abatement 
hearings. Mr. Letarte  stated it  could be  under a 30  minute public  comment  period at  the 
beginning  of  their  meeting.  Mr.  Alonzo  stated he  believed these  owners  wanted to attend  
the  executive  session  portion  that  addresses their  abatement application  versus  making  a  
public  comment. Mr. Letarte  stated we  had  entertained doing that, but  did not think it was 
possible due to time  constraints.
The  BOA  discussed the  possibility  of  allowing  property  owners  into  executive  session  
individually  and  noted even  two or three minutes per  owner,  which is unrealistic, would 
amount to  an additional 15 hours, thus extending time  out needed to review all  400 
applications. Their  plan was  to review  60-100 applications per week.  Town  Manager  
Lemieux advised whatever  they decided to  be  consistent through the   entire  process.
The  Select  Board  concurred with  her  statement.  Several  scenarios  were  discussed on the  
abatement process according to the now assumed mailing date  of the tax bills.
The  board moved  on to  the  general  framework  of the  investigation.  Mr.  Jeffreys  read  
excerpts  from  a  document detailing the investigation.
Adjourn