===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG 
BOARD OF ASSESSORS 
MEETING NOTICE AND AGENDA
MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2024
6:30 PM            
LIBRARY ROOM, EAGLE HOUSE
25 Memorial Drive
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend 
this in-person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a 
courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this 
agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
REMOTE PARTICIPATION
From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7927370353?omn=89004487898  or 
Join Zoom Meeting
Meeting ID:  792 737 0353 
From a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 792 737 0353 # 
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after 
joining the meeting.  Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Law Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting will be recorded and 
can be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel (http://www.youtube.com/user/LunenburgAccess/videos) within 
24 hours of the meeting. 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  
Votes may be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed 
may also be brought up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
CALL TO ORDER 
OPENING COMMENTS  
 Board 
 Public 
APPOINTMENTS
 6:30: Introduction to and Ratification of the Town Manager’s appointment of the Principal Assessor, Lynda McQuade
NEW BUSINESS
 RFQ for Personal Property Maintenance and Utility Appraisal. 
o Review for Errors and Omissions. 
 Note: This is for the Cyclical reviews, not the 5 Year Revaluation.
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
 Board
ENTER EXECUTIVE SESSION – Suspend open meeting and enter into Executive Session, not to return to Open Session 
after exiting Executive Session.  
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
MoƟon to enter execuƟve session under Purpose 7: "To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or special 
law or federal grant-in-aid requirements". 
"ApplicaƟons for abatement or exempƟon under this chapter shall, except in proceedings before the county 
commissioners, the appellate tax board or a court of the Commonwealth, be open only to the inspecƟon of the assessors, 
the commissioner, the depuƟes, clerks and assistants of either the assessors or the commissioner and such other oﬃcials 
or designated private auditors of the Commonwealth." 
CH59 S60 of MGL is the law being cited. 
ADJOURN