===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS 
MEETING NOTICE AND AGENDA
MONDAY, JULY 29, 2024 
6:30 PM 
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN ST.
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast live 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook page 
https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/  
The recording can be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel after the meeting. 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-
person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the 
public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise 
required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person vs.
virtual attendance accordingly. 
REMOTE PARTICIPATION
From a computer, please use the the link below to join the public meeting webinar:
Join Zoom Meeting – https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85219795770?pwd=k1zFfkpDhAdsbHjmhwp6wrMZdzWKZO.1     
Meeting ID: 852 1979 5770
Passcode: 418944 
From a telephone, dial the toll free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID:  852 1979 5770  # 
If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the 
meeting.  Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and are those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may 
be taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought 
up for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law. 
CALL TO ORDER 
OPENING COMMENTS  
 Board 
 Public 
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
 Status of Abatement and Exemption Applications. Other items as needed.
CURRENT BUSINESS
 Discussion about request from Carl Luck: 
“to understand the details of how each of the considered, and not considered adjustment factors effects the 
assessment.  This could be a simple as looking at the Vision factors/tables applied and/or doing some real time, one by 
one, impact analysis by methodically changing factors and noting what part of the Vision card calculations are effected 
and by how much.” 
 Review and Approve Minutes of June 10, 2024. Minutes of Executive Session of June 10, 2024
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, etc.
 Update on Neighborhood Review Team proposal (schedule, membership, charge)
 Brief Status of Roll out of Website- Test Plan, Release Schedule
POSTPONED TOPICS
 Discuss details and development of Assessing Calendar. 
 Update status of investigation regarding Exemptions: including 17C, 22, 37, 41C, (and potential 41D), 
 BOA Policies
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE 
 August 19, 2024
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
 Board 
ENTER EXECUTIVE SESSION – Suspend open meeting and enter into Executive Session, not to return to Open Session after exiting 
Executive Session.  Motion to enter executive session under Purpose 7: "To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or 
special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements". 
EXECUTIVE SESSION 
"Applications for abatement or exemption under this chapter shall, except in proceedings before the county 
commissioners, the appellate tax board or a court of the Commonwealth, be open only to the inspection of the 
assessors, the commissioner, the deputies, clerks and assistants of either the assessors or the commissioner and 
such other officials or designated private auditors of the Commonwealth." 
CH59 S60 of MGL is the law being cited. 
ADJOURN