===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
MAY 20, 2024
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN STREET
Present members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Clerk John Rabbitt, Principal 
Assessor Lynda McQuade, Assessing Consultant Rena Swezey
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:30 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board
John Rabbitt congratulated Sarah Cammer on being voted in and thanked her for 
making a comment at the Select Board meeting regarding the neighborhood team.
Sarah Cammer congratulated Brian Laffond for being voted in. Brian Laffond was
sworn in this afternoon.
Sarah Cammer states she will be participating in the meeting but is unable to vote 
because she must be sworn in by the Town Clerk first.
 Public
 There was no public comment.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
 Status of Abatement and Exemption Applications. 
o Lynda McQuade stated the abatement application period ended last Thursday.
 There were 42 abatement applications received. 
 Rena Swezey and Lynda McQuade have completed inspections and 
recommendations for half of those abatements.  
o Lynda McQuade came across another omitted bill that is going to be mailed out 
on May 28th. 
o The state reimbursement for the motor vehicle veteran’s exemptions also known 
as MD1 was submitted.
o Lynda McQuade is continuing to review the 102 building permits. 
o Rena Swezey and Lynda McQuade processed settlements for the 4 outstanding 
ATB cases from FY 2023.
CURRENT BUSINESS
 Review and Approve Minutes of April 22, 2024, May 6, 2024
Brian Laffond provided a copy of the April 22nd minutes with amendments to the 
Board. Sarah Cammer found a few grammatical errors.
===PAGE 2===
There was a motion to approve the April 22nd minutes by John Rabbitt, seconded 
by Brian Laffond. All in favor. Brian Laffond aye, John Rabbitt aye.
The minutes for May 6th were received this morning.  Brian Laffond provided a 
copy of the May 6th minutes with amendments to the Board and there were no 
suggested changes. 
There was a motion to approve the May 6th minutes by John Rabbitt, seconded by
Brian Laffond. All in favor. Brian Laffond aye, John Rabbitt aye.
 Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Payroll, Billing Errors, etc.
 There was a bill from MLS for the set tlement of an abatements totaling $450 
that was signed by the Board.
 Update on Neighborhood Review Team proposal (schedule, membership, charge)
 Sarah Cammer confirmed there are curre ntly 3 volunteers aside from herself. 
The other members include Rena Swezey as the contractor, Carl Luck as a 
member at large that’s a lake resident, Ana Lockwood as a member at large 
that is a non-lake resident. 
The Board is still looking for a Realtor to volunteer for the team. If anyone is 
interested, please reach out to Sarah Cammer.
The first meeting is expected to start the second week of June and the goal is to be
completed by August.
Sarah Cammer is creating a GIS map including site characteristics and 
classification of neighborhoods.
Rena Swezey reviewed Groton’s database for lake front property. Groton uses the 
code 1013 and that signifies a single-family waterfront. Additionally, Rena 
Swezey spoke with an assessor in Littleton. All their properties are coded as 1 for 
waterfront specifically on the water or code 2 for a water view.
 Brief Status of Roll out of Website  ̶ Test Plan, Release Schedule
 John Rabbitt and Kara McCarthy ar e making progress on the temporary 
website. The topics on the side has been consolidated down to 7 and there is 
a site index/table of contents.
John Rabbitt is having meetings with Kara McCarthy on a weekly basis.
POSTPONED TOPICS
 Discuss details and development of Assessing Calendar.
 Update status of investigation regarding Exemptions: including 17C, 22,37, 41C, (and 
potential 41D).
 BOA Policies
Brian Laffond has started to write a policy to review and discuss.
===PAGE 3===
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
 June 3, 2024
 June 10, 2024 (tentative)
 July 22,2024
 August 19, 2024
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
 There were no comments from the public.
 Board
 John Rabbitt has been doing research into the 41A exemption. John Rabbitt 
believes the challenge is going to be with the banks and getting them to take 
a second position. John Rabbitt questions where to go to get additional 
information but will continue his research. 
John Rabbitt states the House bill for the Circuit Breaker Credit has passed. There
is question among the Board if this bill was actually passed. This will be deferred 
as a future conversation item. 
Brian Laffond drafted a letter to be sent to the people who received bills that had 
exemptions where the property value was misstated. 
EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was a motion to suspend open meeting and enter into executive session not to return to 
open session after executive session by Brian Laffond, seconded by John Rabbitt. Roll call vote. 
Brian Laffond aye, John Rabbitt aye.
The meeting closed at 7:15 PM.
ENTER EXECUTIVE SESSION
 – Suspend open meeting and enter into Executive Session, not 
to return to Open Session after exiting Executive Session. Motion to enter executive session 
under Purpose 7: "To comply with, or act under the authority of, any general or 
special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements". 