===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Appeured
214/26
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2025
RITTER BUILDING, LOWER LEVEL CONFERENCE ROOM
960 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
Present Members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer,
Principal Assessor Lynda Cajka
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 7:35 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
• Board
There were no comments from the Board.
• Public
There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
• FY 2026 Growth, FY 2026 LA3 and Interim Adjustments. Other items as needed.
In the past month:
- 4 requests for abutters lists were received.
- 43 motor vehicle excise tax abatement applications were received. All
have been processed and are awaiting payment processing by the
tax collector.
- The FY26 real estate exemption applications were mailed on
September 1" with a deadline of April 1, 2026.
- Final notices for functional and economic obsolescence discounts
were mailed.
- The FY26 smart growth cost reports for motor vehicle excise tax and
additional property tax revenue were submitted to DLS.
- The FY26 growth for residential, commercial, industrial and chapter
land was submitted to RRC. The total was $392,380.
The new amounts for the 41D exemption totaled $1,029. Lynda Cajka called DLS
to utilize the social security deduction. For a single person the deduction is $5,980
and their spouse $2,990. Married couples would receive $8,970 which would
come off the income amount for exemptions. This allows more applicants to
qualify for an exemption.
We have already received a number of Chapter Land applications. Deadline is
December 1, 2025.
1
===PAGE 2===
The Office is reviewing existing Functional and Obsolescence adjustments.
Vision is still working on the Interim. Due date was yesterday. They are hoping
to finish in the next week. The Board expressed some frustration with their
tardiness without suffering any consequences. All the prep work in the office has
been completed, we are only waiting on the residential data from Vision and
Personal Property for Commercial data growth amount from RRC. So far, 2026
growth for residential, commercial, industrial and chapter land is $392,380 tax
dollars. We had estimated $400,000 and should have no trouble exceeding that.
Goals for the next couple of weeks include submitting the LA3, LA 4, LA13,
and LA15.
We hope to have the Classification Hearing in mid-November.
CURRENT BUSINESS
• Review and Approve Minutes of May 5, 2025,July 16, 2025, July 29, 2025,
August 13, 2025, and September 3, 2025.
There was a motion to approve the minutes from April 2, 2025, by Sarah Cammer,
seconded by Brian Laffond.
There was a motion to approve the minutes, as amended, from April 16, 2025.
There was a motion to approve the minutes from May 5, 2025, by Sarah Cammer,
seconded by Brian Laffond.
• Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Billing Errors, etc.
There were no documents to review and approve.
• Review of 2024 Valid/Arm's Length Sales Report
Lynda Cajka provided a digital copy to the Board. There are 154 qualified
Sales that Vision is currently reviewing and analyzing.
Sarah Cammer requested an additional option to sort by the site index.
Brian Laffond requested an additional option to sort by Y/Y % of change on the
Old vs. New values.
There were no bids for the Neighborhood Review RFP.
Randy Mercier came into the office and determined there could be 11
characters in our vision code.
• Status of Economic and Functional Obsolescence Property Record Card discounts and
Notification to Property Owners
2
===PAGE 3===
Lynda Cajka stated that 2 attempts were made to contact property owners. There
were 6 properties owners that didn't provide a response to the office. A document
was sent to the property owners who did not respond, that included a copy of their
property record card with the discount removed. The discounts totaled $8,231.45
with an assessed value of $573,200.
• 41A Warrant for Income Limitation Increase.
Brian Laffond sent a draft of the warrant to the Board. Either Lynda Cajka or
Brian Laffond will submit the warrant because the deadline is tomorrow.
The Board learned that Jack Rabbitt submitted (on behalf of the Council on
Aging) a warrant article to have 41A adopted and to decrease the interest rate.
Atter reviewing 41A, it was determined to be state mandated and not a local
option, and further, the Town had already decreased the interest rate. That article
is superfluous. Brian Laffond provided his feedback to the Town Manager.
• Master Plan Response
Lynda Cajka confirms she has been working on this and will provide an update at
the next meeting. Brian Laffond explained that he would be willing to provide a
draft to relieve Lynda of that additional burden.
• Office hours were discussed.
The Board agreed our goal is to keep the Assessor's Office open for business
whenever the Town Hall is open for business.
• GIS Mapping Software Future Upgrade
A representative from Data Scout came to the office and provided a
presentation. This company can update the CAMA system in Vision, and all
maps will be updated automatically. Additionally, the software integrates
with Vision and has the ability to run additional reports and map plotting.
Sarah Cammer questions the field mapping capabilities of the application. Lynda
Cajka will speak to the representative about their field capabilities and will relay
that information to the Board.
• Method to implement Senior Means Tested Exemption.
At this time there is apparently no process to shift the tax burden for this
exemption within MUNIS. This first year we may need to utilize Overlay.
POSTPONED TOPICS
• Criteria for Clause 18
Lynda Cajka knows of a resident who may want to apply for this exemption.
3
===PAGE 4===
Currently, Lunenburg has not determined any criteria. Lynda has looked for other
towns' criteria but was unable to find a match with similar income or assets.
• Potential "Local Rule" Exemption for disabled residents
Lynda Cajka is researching what other towns have done to address these citizens'
needs.
• BOA Policies Binder
• Brian Latfond would like to see if there is any way to integrate YouTube Videos into the
page that contains Agendas and Minutes. Brian asked Lynda to follow up with our
IT Director, Kara McCarthy.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Upcoming Meetings: October 15, 2025, November 5, 2025, November 19, 2025,
December 3, 2025, and December 17, 2025 (All meetings scheduled for 6:30 p.m.
with location varying each meeting).
CLOSING COMMENTS
• Public
There were no comments from the public.
• Board
Lynda Cajka states there are copies of the data collection manual as well as
forms and fliers related to exemptions either outside or in the office.
The Board of Assessors are looking for additional member to join the team.
ADJOURN
favor.
The meeting closed at 9:25 PM.
There was a motion to adjourn by Sarah Cammer, seconded by Brian Laffond. All in
4
