===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Minutes Approved Date
BPL April 8, 2026
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
April 16, 2025
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN STREET
Present Members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Clerk John Rabbitt
Principal Assessor Lynda McQuade, Rena Swezey.
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:31 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
• Board
John Rabbitt states he only has 1 or 2 meetings left. He has put his name in to
be elected on the Council on Aging.
• Public
There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
• Status of FY2025 Abatement Applications, Vision Property Record Cards Update.
Issues with CAl. Other items as needed.
Lynda McQuade provided the following updates:
6 abutters list requests were received in the last month.
14 additional exemption applications for review later this evening.
To date, 132 real estate exemptions have been received.
There are 37 real estate and personal property abatements.
20 have beer granted totaling $18,083.12.
13 were denied.
2 were withd awn as the residents did not want to proceed with
inspections.
2 inspections are being reviewed after this meeting.
Settlement for pending only ATB Case will be reviewed later this evening.
41 motor vehicle excise tax abatements have been received.
Denise McCue is continuing to follow up with building permits and
inspections.
The office will soon start working on new growth.
Lynda McQuade met with the Building Department and Board of Health to set up a
plan for notifications of ANR plans and map changes for the Assessing dept. Andrea
===PAGE 2===
Schnepf from BoH volunteered to work with Lynda to improve communication flow
and interpret deeds. There are 8 parcels that aren't linked properly in CAl.
Vision has sent a revised contract for the first year of appraisals. Currently there
have been 112 appraisals completed. The appraisals are anticipated to be
completed by June 30t. There will then be a break before another round of
inspections starts in Augus:. A $500 credit was reimbursed for the cost of mailing
that the office provided.
There was a discussion abcut chapter land applications. There are 3 classes of
chapter land- Forestry Chapter 61, Agriculture Chapter 61A, Recreation Chapter
61B. The benefit of having chapter land is a significant discount on value that
reduces tax owed. Robin Nano has sent 2 letters, an initial letter and a follow up
letter asking residents to send in their applications. Applications were originally due
on December 1, 2024. If ar application is not received the property will be brought
back to full value. There must be a lien on these properties. Some parcels do not
have an existing lien. The office is following up to correct this.
The state approved the Lunenburg battery energy storage facility planned for 485
Leominster/Shirley Road.
MDM1, veterans' exemptions, and motor vehicle exemption reimbursements need
to be submitted by April 30*. Currently we have $128,951 in exemptions and expect
reimbursement of roughly S103,237.
CURRENT BUSINESS
• Review and Approve Minutes cf February 19, 2025, March 12, 2025, and March 19,
2025,
and April 2, 2025, Executive Sessions of April 2, 2025.
The minutes from the open sessions were not reviewed.
There was a motion by Brian Laffond to approve for release the executive session
minutes of April 2, 2025. Seconded by Sarah Cammer. All in favor.
• Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Billing Errors, etc.
There were no invoices, vouchers, or billing errors to review or approve.
© Neighborhood/Site Index Plan for DOR Directive
Rena Swezey has been investigating the neighborhood/site index plan. Sarah
Cammer is suggesting changing the lakefront to waterfront and including indexes.
Rena Swezey is going to look into each lake and review the codes. All neighborhoods
will need to be addressed. One focus will be to remove as many of the subjective factors
===PAGE 3===
as possible. There is a feature in V sion that will allow us to compare similar properties.
Rena Swezey will provide an update in another month.
• Deed/Plan Issues.
Lynda McQuade states that a letter has been sent to the homeowner
requesting they contact their attorney regarding a discrepancy in their deed.
Andrea Schnepf from the Board of Health has offered to assist the office with
interpreting some of the deed issues.
• Cyclical Inspection Program.
Lynda McQuade will update the website with the new start date of May 12th
and will also indicate the streets that the inspector will be on that week.
Postcards will be going out in the rext week and a half for homes on the
inspection list.
• FY 2026 Overlay.
$175,000 was submitted by the Board of Assessors to be voted on. So far this
year $168,000 has been used from the overlay.
• Clause 41 and 17 Assets/Income Level Adjustment Exemption Warrant Article.
John Rabbitt provided a 30-slide presentation about clause 41 that will be
reviewed at the next meeting.
Brian Laffond created a letter with Information that can be sent to 41A applicants.
He will submit the letter to the Town Counsel for their feedback.
All exemptions need to be submitted and completed by April 1st. If the application is
denied residents have the option to go to the ATB.
POSTPONED TOPICS
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Upcoming Meetings: May 5, 2025 Tentative) May 7, 2025, May 14, 2025 (Tentative), May 21,
2025, June 18, 2025.
CLOSING COMMENTS
• Public
There were no comments fom the public.
• Board
Brian Laffond read a document about Clause 41 and 17 that he plans to present at
the town meeting, if needed.
===PAGE 4===
Sarah Cammer confirms there will be openings on the Board and names can
be written in during elections.
ADJOURN
return to
Rabbitt. ALL
There was a motion to adjourn the open meeting and enter the executive session, not to
the open session after exiting executive session by Brian Laffond, seconded by John
in favor.
The meeting closed at 8:31 PM.
===PAGE 5===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
BOARD OF ASSESSORS
Minutes April 16, 2025
Executive Session
Board Members: Brian Laffond, Sarah Cammer and Jack Rabbitt in attendance.
Executive Session started at 8:30PM
Jack recused himself on the 41A application. Brian Laffond, the Chair, and Sarah
Cammer, Vice Chair, denied the 41A application for being incomplete as; only one of
the owners was on the application and the property is owned jointly and there was no
letter or indication of bank approval of the lien.
Review of Exemptions
• Reviewed and approved an additional $600 for one application for a Clause 22
veteran that was converted to a Clause 22E.
Review of Abatements
• The Board of Assessors approved 2 abatements for properties that had
fires.
• One is a real estate abatement
• The other is an administrative real estate abatement
• The new application Chapter land lien for was approved by the Board of
Assessors
• The Board of Assessors denied 2 real estate abatements for refusal to
schedule inspections which is a part of the abatement process
• The Board of Assessors approved 2 real estate abatements for changes
after 2nd inspection was requested by the attorney for misinformation
during the first inspections
• Settlement of ATB case for 39 Round Rd for approval of FY2024 abatement
and withdrawal of FY2025 real estate abatement
Meeting adjourned 10:25PM
