===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
APPROVED
11/19/25
BPL.
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
JULY 16, 2025
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN STREET
Present Members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer (Zoom),
Principal Assessor Lynda Cajka
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:35PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
• Board
There were no comments from the Board
• Public
There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR.
• FY2026 Interim adjustments, Addition of tax billing responsibilities in office, CAI
map update. Other items as needed.
In the last month there have been 12 abutters lists requests. A total of 70
motor vehicle excise tax abatements have been processed in MUNIS and are
awaiting payment processing by the tax collector.
While reorganizing the office a few months ago there were a few issues identified
regarding Chapter land properties. In town there are 91-chapter land properties
including: 29 forestry, 35 agriculture, and 27 recreational. 9 of these properties
didn't have liens and there were 21 applications missing. Letters have been sent
and are in the process of being filed with the registry of deeds. Due to no
response, there were 7 properties that have been removed from chapter land, 4
Chapter 61A and 3 were 61B. Additionally, there are 4 properties were that were
in chapter land that had no liens and were sold. Thus roll back tax bills were
issued. One property that was sold in Nov. 2021, has no application and no lien,
but wants to "continue in Chapter 61B". There was an apparent communication
breakdown during the transfer of property. The Board wishes to postpone a
decision on this property until our next meeting. At that time, if we have a valid
application and the lien is in progress, we could decide whether to issue roll-back
order or not. We will revisit this in August.
The Assessor's Office is getting ready to start FY26 cyclical inspections program
phase 2. 500 blue postcards were mailed. If a blue postcard is received, residents
should expect a visit from the Vision appraiser. If you receive a blue postcard and
===PAGE 2===
do not want anyone to visit your home, please call the office and make them
aware. There is no exact date that the Vision inspector will start.
Robin Nano has started preparing the FY27 Chapter Land applications that will be
mailed August 1s.
Lynda Cajka has begun developing a draft of the scope of work RFP to address
the Neighborhood review and revision directive from the DOR.
Lynda Cajka has been in contact with the Vision appraiser, and they indicated that
the office will be receiving the interim adjustment on time this year. They have
started the interim adjustments. Current due date is September 30, 2025.
Current assessed value of growth for FY26 is $27,758,770. The dollar amount
that does not include personal property is $398, 615.93. Personal property
(currently being done by RRC) will increase that Growth.
Goals for next month include:
- Finalizing FY26 growth
- Continue Chapter 61B inspections
- Reviewing registry of deeds to find any parcels that were split. Due to
vacancy in the planning department the office is not receiving any map
updates. Sarah Cammer requested a list of those properties in question.
A resident called with questions regarding their property value. Through research
it was determined that the property has a 20% economic obsolescence. We
discovered there were 131 properties that had that obsolescence code. 34 of them
were functional, meaning they would be addressed with the building as a
functional issue and range from 5% to 50%. Typically, the DOR doesn't support
adjustments over 15%. Denise McCue and Lynda Cajka will be completing
inspections of all of those properties.
CURRENT BUSINESS
• Review and Approve Minutes of March 12, 2025, and March 19, 2025, April 16,
2025, May 5, 2025. Executive Sessions of July 8, 2025, and review changes of April
16, 2025, and May 5, 2025.
The review and approval of minutes will take place at the first meeting in
August while all members are physically present.
• Review and Approve Invoices, Expense Vouchers, Billing Errors, etc.
There were no invoices, vouchers or billing errors to review. There are 2 Liens
for Chapter Lands that must be signed, but signatures for liens must be notarized.
Brian Laffond will come into the office for them.
===PAGE 3===
Sarah Cammer will have to come to the office to sign the commitment for Real
Estate and Personal Property.
• Neighborhood/Site Index Plan for DOR Directives RFP/Scope of Work.
Lynda Cajka has been working on the neighborhood review directive and
have drafted a proposal and the scope of work for this directive.
Sarah proposed some changes to the site indexes. Also suggested is an excel
spreadsheet of their neighborhoods and site indexes for each of the
properties.
The scope of work is suggested to be completed by the end of the week. We need
to finalize the wording of the RFP at an open meeting, tentatively scheduled for
July 29, 2025.
• 41A Income Limitation
There is a maximum income of $20,000 to partake in the deferral program. The
Board anticipates modifying the income number at the next town meeting as it
hasn't been updated in decades.
Brian Laffond will write up a warrant article for the next town meeting to be
reviewed at our next meeting.
• Senior Means Tested Exemption Presentation at Senior Center.
Lynda Cajka created a brochure with an application that is available at the
adult activity center and the Board of Assessors Office.
Requirements for exemption include:
- 65 years of age or older
- Owned or occupied your primary residence in Lunenburg for the
past 15 years.
- Must have been granted the circuit breaker income tax credit on
your 2024 tax return.
- Annual income level for 2024 can't exceed $72,000 for single
individuals, $91,000 for head of households, or $109,000 for
married couples.
- Asset limit is $275,000 including checking, savings, second home,
trust fund, securities, and bonds.
- Must submit an application to the assessing department every
year.
- The max exemption for 2026 is $2,730. Additionally, applicants may
also receive an elderly exemption in the same fiscal year if they qualify.
POSTPONED TOPICS
Criteria for Clause 18.
===PAGE 4===
Sarah Cammer proposed reviewing the workflow going through the
Assessor's Office. There are multiple systems and papers going back and
forth. There may be some additional software available that may streamline
tasks.
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Brian Laffond states the Board is slated to go before the Select Board with a response to
the investigation on August 13'.
A tentative meeting was scheduled for July 29 at 11AM to review and approve the
RFP.
Upcoming Meetings: August 13, 2025, September 17, 2025.
Additionally, tentative meetings are scheduled for the first and third Wednesday starting
in September. Lynda will send proposed dates.
CLOSING COMMENTS
• Public
There were no comments from the public.
• Board
Brian Laffond states there is an opening on the Board of Assessors and asks anyone
interested to fill out and submit a talent bank application.
ADJOURN
favor.
There was a motion to adjourn by Sarah Cammer, seconded by Brian Laffond. All in
The meeting closed at 7:45 PM.
