===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
11/19/25
BIL.
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
JULY 29, 2025
BILOTTA ROOM, LUNENBURG TOWN HALL
17 MAIN STREET
Present Members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer,
Principal Assessor Lynda Cajka.
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 11:00a.m..
OPENING COMMENTS
• Board
Sarah Cammer recently attended a conference and received a brochure
from GIS that highlighted land records and land administration. This may be
an option for streamlining, especially if there is a town account with Mass
GIS.
• Public
There were no comments from the public.
CURRENT BUSINESS
• Review of Response to Select Board Investigation Report of 2023 for Select Board
Meeting on Tuesday, August 19, 2025.
Sarah Cammer and Brian Laffond made grammatical and formatting corrections.
Sarah Cammer reminded everyone that there is still an opening for another Board
of Assessor member.
Brian Laffond suggests writing an addendum to include:
The investigation seemed to indicate that communication, supervision, and
oversight were lacking during this crisis but there were no recommended
solutions in the investigation. The Board has undertaken to improve
communication, supervision, and oversight. Brian Laffond will be unable to
attend the meeting on August 19th but will provide the letter to Sarah Cammer to
present in case it is needed.
• Senior Means Tested Tax Exemption form was submitted by former Select Board
member Tom Alonzo. The team agreed the form was great as submitted. Once
the 2 separate pages are concatenated, it will be good to go out for printing.
Many thanks to Tom Alonzo.
===PAGE 2===
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
• Upcoming Meetings: August 13, 2025 (Ritter Building), September 3, 2025, and
Tentative Date at the end of September (9/24/2025 is not available for any location).
Sarah Cammer suggests asking the adult activity center if there is availability to have the
September 24# meeting there. If there is no availability the Board discussed having the
meeting on September 25""
The Board resume meeting twice a month starting in September.
Tentative meetings for October, November and December are as follows:
October 1
October 15
November 5
November 19
December 3
December17
CLOSING COMMENTS
• Public
There were no comments from the public.
• Board
Sarah Cammer contemplates creating a small presentation about Mass GIS. It would be
ideal to have town wide access to see all parcels. It would be great to directly update GIS
information while in the field. The town would need someone who is knowledgeable
with GIS that can update plans and add parcels. Sarah Cammer states there are many
towns that have already integrated this system.
Brian Laffond requests Lynda Cajka to reach out to our contact at ATB to see if there are
any outstanding cases against Lunenburg. We have been surprised in the past.
Sarah Cammer asked for an update from Vision on the status of the Sales Report, etc. for
the Interim valuation. Vision was late last year.
ADJOURN
There was a motion to adjourn by Sarah Cammer, seconded by Brian Laffond.
The meeting closed at 12:17 PM.
