===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2026
RITTER BUILDING, UPPER LEVEL
960 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE
Minutes Approved Date
BPL
August 5, 2026
Present Members: Chair Brian Laffond, Vice Chair Sarah Cammer, Principal
Assessor Lynda Cajka, Finance Director/Town Accountant Karen Barrett, Member
Brian Marple, Consultant Rena Swezey
CALL TO ORDER
The meeting opened at 6:30 PM.
OPENING COMMENTS
Board
There were no comments from the Board.
Public
There were no comments from the public.
STATUS REPORT FROM PRINCIPAL ASSESSOR
Lynda Cajka was not present to provide her report.
Brian Laffond stated there is a Meet and Greet at the Adult Activity Center on April
28th at 7 PM. Residents are welcome to come to the Assessors booth with any
questions. The Board members will not be present, but the Assessor's Office Data
Collector, Denise McCue, and Karen Barrett will be present.
Jo Toale from Public Access Cable asked Brian Laffond if he would appear on an
episode of Committee Confidential to talk about the Board.
There was a brief discussion about supplemental bills. Karen Barrett will follow up
and provide information to the Board.
Signed motor vehicle and trailer excise warrants from various commitments totaling
$245,021.
The motor vehicle excise tax warrant for commitment number 8 of FY25 totaling
$5.02 was signed by the Board. This is likely the final commitment for 2025.
A new 61A application was approved. It includes the Check for the registry and the
lien. It was approved by the board and will need to be notarized tomorrow.
CURRENT BUSINESS
Questions for CAl as we execute the Neighborhood Review Project
===PAGE 2===
Brian Laffond shared that Rena Swezey has been hired as a consultant to
execute the neighborhood review project.
Sarah Cammer learned that the Assessor's Office has a login with the CAl
site that includes additional attributes. The account has access to all of the
data that Vision has imported. Features also include the ability to export
giant maps and shape files.
Sarah Cammer wants to know if there are additional fees to create sketches
ot homes.
Karen Barrett is going to get a price list of features and the fee schedules.
Karen Barrett will also try to obtain copies of previous CAl contracts.
Sarah Cammer questions whether information about traffic will be
accessible and if site condition information can be added.
Rena Swezey will be meeting with CAl representatives on May 12, 2026.
Rena Swezey provided a data collection manual that includes home sales
from the past 4 years.
Rena Swezey suggests having sub-neighborhoods and provided the Board
with a list of neighborhood code examples. The neighborhoods she intends
to start with are the lakes (Site Index 1, 1A and 1B) and the large
neighborhood (Site Index 3).
POSTPONED TOPICS
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Upcoming Tentative Meetings: May 13, 2026
CLOSING COMMENTS
Public
There were no comments from the public.
Board
Brian Laffond received feedback from a resident regarding the website. To
clarify the exemptions page has been renamed to exemptions and deferrals.
ADJOURN
There was a motion to adjourn the open meeting and enter executive session, not
to return to the open session after exiting the executive session by Sarah Cammer,
seconded by Brian Laffond. All in favor.
===PAGE 3===
The meeting closed at 7:36 PM.
