===PAGE 1===
L UNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS
MEETING NOTICE AND AGENDA
WEDNESDAY, September 9, 2026  at 6:30P.M.
ADULT ACTIVITY CENTER
25 MEMORIAL DRIVE
*AMENDED  SEPTEMBER 3, 2026
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive  on the Public Access Facebook 
page :(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/ ).
The recording can be found on the LunenburgAccess  YouTube channel at Board of Assessors - YouTube  after the meeting .
Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that 
the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent 
preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application. You are hereby 
notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the meeting.
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-
person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the 
public, the meeting will not be suspended nor  terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise 
required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person 
vs. virtual attendance accordingly. 
REMOTE PARTICIPATION
From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar:
From a  telephone, dial the toll-free number (888) 475-4499  and enter Webinar ID: 898 6204 6776 . If you have not registered with 
Zoom  you will be asked for your name and an e-mail  address.                   Note: 
No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting.  
Computer and app users may use the “raise hand ” feature to request to speak.
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of  these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up 
for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.
CALL TO ORDER
OPENING COMMENTS
 Board
 Public
CURRENT BUSINESS
 Review and Approve Minutes of July 1, 2026. August 5, 2026, Executive Session of August 11, 2026.
 Review Excise Tax abatements
 Status of Vision interim valuations
 Release of Classified Horticultural-Recreational Land Tax Lien for 255 Sunny Hill Road, 251 Sunny Hill Road, 256 
Leominster Road
 Update on the Neighborhood Project
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE
Upcoming Meetings: September 23, 2026  in Town Hall Bilotta Room, October 7, 2026  in Rittter  Building Lower Level. (All meetings 
scheduled for 6:30p.m.).
CLOSING COMMENTS
 Public
 Board
ADJOURN to EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE SESSION –  Move to Adjourn open meeting and enter Executive Session, not to return to Open Session after
exiting  Executive Session. Motion to enter executive session under Purpose 7: "To comply with, or act under the authority
of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements".
 Review and approve/ deny Senior and Veterans real estate tax exemption applications
Review and approve/ deny Senior Means tested real estate tax exemption applications .