===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG BOARD OF ASSESSORS 
MEETING NOTICE AND AGENDA 
 
WEDNESDAY, October 14, 2026 at 6:30 PM 
 
ADULT ACTIVITY CENTER 
25 MEMORIAL DRIVE 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and broadcast 
over the Lunenburg Public Access channel, on FacebookLive on the Public Access Facebook 
page:(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-Access-Cable-157427270975305/).   
 
The recording can be found on the LunenburgAccess YouTube channel at Board of Assessors - YouTube after the meeting.  
Additionally, please be advised that the Town of Lunenburg utilizes the Zoom platform as host for its hybrid and remote meetings; that 
the Zoom platform utilizes AI technology, known as "AI Companion," to create audio transcriptions of meetings to aid in the subsequent 
preparation of meeting minutes; and that AI Companion is activated immediately upon launching the Zoom application. You are hereby 
notified that this AI technology may capture audio prior to the start of the meeting and/or following the conclusion of the meeting. 
 
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend this in-
person meeting. Please note that while an option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as a courtesy to the 
public, the meeting will not be suspended nor terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual broadcast, unless otherwise 
required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this agenda should make plans for in-person 
vs. virtual attendance accordingly.  
REMOTE PARTICIPATION 
 
From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
Join Zoom Meeting- https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84720870803?pwd=ZtiXRh9ltexcVJTQl4M8tajHkgCsHG.1 
Meeting ID:   847 2087 0803 Passcode: 602844  
From a telephone, dial the toll-free number (888) 475-4499 and enter Webinar ID: 847 2087 0803. If you have not registered with 
Zoom you will be asked for your name and an e-mail address.                          
Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak after joining the meeting.  
Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. 
The agenda lists all the topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair.  Votes may be 
taken as a result of these discussions. Not all items listed may in fact be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up 
for discussion to the extent permitted by Open Meeting Law.  
 
CALL TO ORDER: 
 
OPENING COMMENTS 
 
• Board  
• Public  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
 
• Review and Approve Minutes of Open Meetings of September 9, September 23 and September 30, 2026. 
• Discuss New Information on the Veteran's Exemption Articles. 
• Status on Preparations for the Tax Classification Hearing: 
o Commercial / Industrial (Vision) Update and Data Review if possible. 
o Personal Property & Residential Data Review. 
o Discuss What Will Be Included in the Actual Presentation. 
• Schedule a Vote for the Board's Recommendations for the Tax Classification Hearing. 
UPCOMING MEETING/EVENTS SCHEDULE:  October 28, 2026 
 
CLOSING COMMENTS  
• Public 
• Board   
 
ADJOURN to EXECUTIVE SESSION  
 
EXECUTIVE SESSION – Move to Adjourn open meeting and enter Executive Session, not to return to Open Session after  
exiting Executive Session. Motion to enter executive session under Purpose 7: "To comply with, or act under the authority  
of, any general or special law or federal grant-in-aid requirements".   
 
• Review and approve/ deny Senior and Veterans real estate tax exemption applications. 