===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Capital Planning Committee 
(Revised) Notice of Meeting: 
Thursday, March 20, 2024, 7:30 PM  
(immediately following the Finance Committee Meeting) 
Town Hall and Hybrid/Zoom 
 
In accordance with the requirements of the Open Meeting Law, please be advised that this meeting is being recorded and 
broadcast over the Lunenburg Public Access channel and on Facebook Live on the Public Access Facebook page 
(https://www.facebook.com/Lunenburg-Public-AccessCable-157427270975305) and will be uploaded to the Lunenburg 
Access YouTube channel after the meeting.  
This meeting will be held in-person at the location provided on this notice. Members of the public are welcome to attend 
this in-person meeting. Please note that while the option for remote attendance and/or participation is being provided as 
a courtesy to the public, the meeting will not be suspended or terminated if technological problems interrupt the virtual 
broadcast, unless otherwise required by law. Members of the public with particular interest in any specific item on this 
agenda should make plans for in-person vs. virtual attendance accordingly.  
The following information is provided for members of the public that would like to participate in the meeting remotely: To 
Participate Remotely: From a computer, please use the link below to join the public meeting webinar: 
https://us02web.zoom.us/j/7663167607?omn=88421930568. From a telephone, dial the toll-free number (888) 475-4499, 
enter Webinar ID: 88421930568. If you have not registered with Zoom you will be asked for your name and an email 
address. Note: No participant ID is needed, just press # when asked. Telephone users may dial *9 to request to speak 
after joining the meeting. Computer and app users may use the “raise hand” feature to request to speak. This agenda lists 
all topics which may be discussed at the meeting and those reasonably anticipated by the Chair. Votes may be taken 
because of these discussions. Not all items listed may be discussed and other items not listed may also be brought up for 
discussion to the extent allowed by Open Meeting Law. 
Agenda: 
1. Call to order 
2. Public comment 
3. Review, recommendation(s) pertaining to the Town Manager’s FY26 Capital Plan proposal, including funding and 
proposed town meeting warrant articles 
4. Discussion on future CPC topics, goals  
5. Approve Minutes 
6. Public Comment  
7. Adjourn 