
Economic Development Meeting
July 28, 2022
Ritter Memorial Building 960 Massachusetts Ave. Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Call to order 6:05PM 
ROLL CALL
Cathy Clark (Economic Development Chair), Adam Burney (Land Use Director), Joeci Gilchrest (Lunenburg Business Association), Jean Dupre (Economic Development Member), Lou Franco (Select Board Clerk).
PUBLIC COMMENT	
Donnelly’s location is closing and there is concern that a cannabis shop is interested in the location. This will be the first cannabis shop opened in Lunenburg and the town is only allowing 2 licenses for cannabis shops. The main public concern is security, maintaining traffic flow, and worry due to number of locations popping up.  The public has been assured these issues have already been discussed. The town will also receive 3 percent of all revenue in tax money.

SURVEY RESPONSE UPDATE
Currently, 6 to 8 people have voted.  The survey needs to be re-circulated among town pages/websites. Joeci will discuss this with LBA at the upcoming meeting. 
Cathy inquiries about exit survey to be given to businesses leaving. Previously these surveys were mailed, in leger, and posted on town page.
BUSINESS UPDATES
A Rough draft of “How to Open a Business” guide has been made. Once completed these packets will be added to the town website. Anticipated to be completed by Adam by September.
Lunenburg Central Warehouse Project- 475 Leominster Shirley Road – most of the foundation has been laid and walls and roof to be built within the next month. Anticipate being open in upcoming spring. 
Parcel across the street from 475 Leominster Shirley Road is up for sale and has been getting significant interest in potential warehouse or distribution center.
El forno is replacing white tent with a building. This building will not be connected to preexisting building and there will be no occupancy increase. Anticipate new building to be up by next summer.
LUFA Farms -361 Mass Ave- company from Quebec whose mission is to grow food where people live and grow it more sustainably. They will work in partnership with local farmers and discussion about potential virtual farmer’s market with local farmers. The building is to consist of half hydroponic grow and half head house with a greenhouse on the roof. This is anticipated to bring 350 jobs. 
925 Massachusetts Ave – Town has a judgement from the foreclosure board and town now owns the property. EPA (Environmental Protection Agency) will clean up lot including asbestos abatement and then will be sold by the town.  
Old Primary School Building - 250 grand appropriated to finish abatement, planning, and demolish the building. Eventually, will be scrapped back into a hill. Timeline is fluid.
COMMITTEE DISCUSSION/CONCERNS
Cathy and other members want a Facebook business page for Economic Development. This will display general information and advertise open locations up for purchase. Adam will speak to the town manager/selectboard as there may be certain protocols/policies. 
Adam will add Lunenburg Business Association under key contacts in “How to Open a Business” guide. 
LBA (Lunenburg Business Association) is being requested to come to the august meeting. Joeci will invite LBA to the next meeting to discuss and outline areas of interest that we can do to help them and vice versa.   		
VII. MEETING SCHEDULE
August 25th at 6 PM.

VIII. PUBLIC COMMENT
Wendy Drennan from LBA wants to advertise the charity golf tournament for Boys and Girls Club on September 11th on the town page.  Adam will talk to town manager about publishing the event to Facebook. Member will reach out to Selectboard to have them publish the charity golf tournament under their announcement section. 

X. MOTION TO ADJOURN made at 7:30 pm by Jean Duprius, seconded by Joeci Gilchrest. 












