
Economic Development Committee Meeting
August 25, 2022
Ritter Memorial Building960 Massachusetts Ave.Lunenburg, MA 01462 
Call to order at 6:08 PM 
ROLL CALL  - Cathy Clark (Economic Development Chair), Adam Burney (Land Use Director), Joeci Gilchrest (Lunenburg Business Association), Jean Dupre (Economic Development Member), Ana Lockwood (Parks Commission), Maryrae Holman (Agriculture Commission).

PUBLIC COMMENT
No comment.

POTENTIAL MEETING WITH THE LBA (Lunenburg Business Association)
Economic Committee and LBA are scheduled to meet on September 22nd at 4 pm.
Joeci shares the upcoming events hosted by the LBA.
1st Annual Charity Golf Tournament scheduled for September 11 from 1 pm-4 pm at Settlers Crossing Golf Course -994 Northfield Road.
Still looking for half-a-hole sponsorship, food truck vendors, and gift prizes/donations for raffles. All proceeds are going to the Lunenburg Boys and Girls Club.
Networking meeting to follow from 4 pm – 6 pm
3rd Annual Trunk or Treat scheduled for October 29th starting at noon at the Lunenburg High School 
Winter- Welcome to Lunenburg Document is anticipated to be released. This will list important phone numbers, businesses, resources, events, and attractions.
Discussion with Sue Doherty regarding re-branding of Equal House Team.
LBA wants to meet with the Parks and Recreation Commission regarding the Marshall Park Project.  Looking into potential sponsorship from local businesses to advertise at the park.

EDC MISSION STATEMENT 
Committee will be looking into other mission statements from local towns. The objective is to promote project goals, support growth, and the reasons why this committee was established.
BUSINESS UPDATES
LUFA Farms, 361 Mass Ave.
They are in the process of picking an engineering firm to do their design. Anticipate construction to start in the spring and be operational by 2025. 

Lunenburg Central, 475 Leominster Shirley Rd. 
Walls are up and they are working with the DPW to remove/replace signage on Shirley town line to Fort Pond Road. Stripping intersection at Fort Pond Road and Leominster Shirley Road. Currently don’t have tenants but numerous companies have been interested and in contact, but no leases signed. Anticipate being operational by spring of 2023. 
Uma Flowers- As of Monday, August 22nd the planning board has approved Uma Flowers. Anticipate being under construction in 60 days. They have a provisional license from the cannabis control commission and order conditions from conservation. Site plans have already been filed. The town of Lunenburg is capped at 2 cannabis companies.
The commission wants to promote and advertise the empty business spaces for sale/rent. 
- 5 Summer Street Plaza – a few spaces are vacant.
- 308 Mass Ave. – previously a Dollar Tree location.
- 50 Mass Ave. – previously Bootlegger restaurant.
- 165 Mass Ave. – previously Kabob-e-Licious- the property has been split between a house and a restaurant. The house portion has been sold.
- 88 Mass Ave. – a few spaces are vacant.
-1259 Mass Ave. – previously medical office.
- 466 Electric Ave. – previously coffee shop.
Cathy will bring a list of empty business spaces to the next meeting.
COMMITTEE DISCUSSION/CONCERNS
The committee is interested in making a Facebook page/group. Adam will research what the selectboard social medial policies are. 

MEETING SCHEDULE	
September 22nd at 4 pm – LBA will be in attendance.

PUBLIC COMMENT
LUFA Farm is interested in partaking in the farmer’s market before the end of the season. 

MOTION TO ADJOURN was made at 8:00 pm by Jean Dupre, seconded by Ana Lockwood.

	






 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 2












