
Economic Development Committee Meeting
July 27, 2023
Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Ave. 
Lunenburg, MA 01462 
 
Call to order at 6:00 PM
ROLL CALL
Adam Burney (Land Use Director), Jeanne Dupre (Economic Development Member), Joeci Gilchrest (Lunenburg Business Association), Maryrae Holman (Agricultural Commission), Anna Lockwood (Open Space Representative).

PUBLIC COMMENT
No public comment.

TOWN OFFICIAL MEET &amp; GREET 
Low Places Ranch has reviewed and approved the draft provided by Joeci Gilchrist.  This draft was also submitted to the board. Joeci Gilchrest is going to meet with the town employee who monitors/adds to the town's social media pages to promote the event.  The LBA does not want to participate in this event. Adam Burney is going to meet with Wendy the LBA president to see if there is a conflict Joeci Gilchrest is unaware of. 

MEMBER UPDATES/COMMENTS
Joeci Gilchrest shares that the LBA (Lunenburg Business Association) is hosting an event on August 19th from 10 AM to 12 PM called The Fabulous Fall Clean-Out. Residents pay a flat rate per size of their size vehicle and dump their junk in the dumpsters. Additional upcoming events sponsored by the LBA are the 2nd Annual Charity Golf Tournament on September 23rd from 1 PM to 4 PM and the Trunk or Treat Drive/Walkthrough on October 29th. 

NEW BUSINESS UPDATES
		88 MASS AVE.
A golf simulator with a bar and restaurant is being added to the building. There will be 3 to 4 simulator booths with each booth measuring approximately 900 square feet and pool tables. The owners have met with Adam Burney and the building commissioner. 
MASTER PLAN UPDATE
The consultants are putting together an existing conditions report. A rough draft will hopefully be completed and presented at the next public meeting in September. The consultants are planning to create a model of the entire town.  At the upcoming planning board meeting on Monday, there will be a discussion about having this model on permanent display in town.

ADJOURN
Motion to adjourn by Joeci Gilchrest, seconded by Jeanne Dupre.
The meeting adjourned at 6:48 PM.
















