===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg
Economic Development Committee
July 25, 2024
Ritter Memorial Building
960 Massachusetts Ave.
Lunenburg, MA 01462
Present Members:  Chair Cathy Clark, Master Plan Steering Committee Representative 
Joeci Gilchrest, Agriculture Commission Representative Maryrae Holman, Open Space 
Representative Ana Lockwood, Select Board Representative Amanda Moore
Absent Member s : Member Jeanne Dupre, Planning Board Representative Glenn 
McLeod
I. CALL TO ORDER
 The meeting opened at 6:00 PM .
II. APPROVAL OF MINUTES
There was a motion to approve the June 27 th  m inutes by Joeci Gilchrest, 
seconded by Ana Lockwood.  Roll call vote. Joeci Gilchrest aye, Cathy 
Clark aye, Maryrae Holman aye, Ana Lockwood aye.
III.  REORGANIZE
 Joeci Gilchrest says  there have been a lot of missed meeting s and would 
like to see th at  decrease.  Cathy Clark s tates we all have schedules, but this 
needs to be a priority. 
 
Ana Lockwood v olunteers to be the C lerk and run meetings . Joeci 
Gilchrest  agrees and is more comfortable  with A na  Lockwood  handling the
tasks and abiding by the town of Lunenburg rules and procedures .
Joeci Gilchrest  is able to  offer more of an  advisory  role and is happy to 
help in any way.  Joeci Gilchrest questions what the responsibilities are for  
the v ice chair  position . Cathy  Clark  states the role  includes starting 
meeting s  if the chair is unavailable a nd general participation.
Maryrae Holman nominates Cathy  Clark  for C ha ir, Mar yrae Holman  for 
Vice Chair and Ana Lockwood as Clerk .
There was a motion by  Joeci Gilchrest  to nominate Cathy Clark as Chair, 
Maryrae as Vice Chair, Ana Lockwood as Clerk, seconded by Ana 
===PAGE 2===
Lockwood. Roll call vote. Joeci Gilchrest aye, Cathy Clark aye, Maryrae 
Holman aye, Ana Lockwood aye.
IV. PLANNING BOARD MEETING DISCUSSION
Cathy  C lark is concerned that there may not be a quorum  for the  Planning 
Board meeting.  A na L ockwood confirms members can attend and if there 
is a quorum  the meeting can be opened and then closed . If there is no 
quorum whoever  attend s  can be a part  of the conversation
The Planning B oard meets bi-weekly on  Mondays. The  anticipated time 
frame for the Planning Board meeting is in August  but Cathy  Clark  will 
follow up to get a date.
V. MEET & GREET DISCUSSION
 Joeci  Gilchrest sent an  invitation to all mem bers  and included the 
correct language to describe meet and greet .
- Joeci Gilchrest states the  next  main priority is to a p proach local 
business es  for monetary food and drink sponsorships.
o Joeci Gilchrest creates a m onetary goal of $1,500 . Ana 
Lockwood suggests emailing  the Select Board to see if there is 
any budget as this Committee is part of the Planning Board . 
Joeci Gilchrest states they do have a budget but there wasn ’t an
itemized  section that encompassed this event. Within the budget
there is an opportunity  to  obtain  office supplies  and print flyers 
and banners.  Ana Lockwood suggests the Committee  reach out 
to the To wn to see if/what can be covered.
 Additional tasks to be completed include:
 Distribut ing  event flyer
 Estimated f ood costs
 DJ or live m usic
 Popup tables and chairs
 Creating s ign in sheets
 Purchase n ame tags
 Volunteers to direct traffic
Maryrae Holman previously pai d  for and booked a DJ and a port -a -potty . 
Maryra e Holman  still has all  the tablecloths she purchased last year  to 
contribute.
Joeci Gilchrest will send an email with everyone ’s  assigned tasks  and 
create a Facebook  event.  Additionally, Joeci Gilchrest will contact  IT to 
see if there is a way to set up a system to send reservations and receive 
responses. 
===PAGE 3===
VI. PUBLIC COMMENT
There w ere  no comments from the public.
VII. MEMBER UPDATES/COMMENTS
Joeci Gilchrest is c urrently working on getting Norton and Hudson ’s  
E conomic D evelopment Committee  to come in and do a presentation for 
the C ommittee.
Cathy  Clark states the biggest issue is to make a more streamlined 
process for the new businesses to open in town.
Ana  Lockwood  suggests after the meet and greet the C ommittee pick an 
area to focus on to  create more streamlined process until we get success.
Cathy  Clark knows  someone who may be interested in being an ex-officio  
member of the Committee. Cathy Clark will follow up and inquire.
Ana Lockwood thanks Amanda Moore  for being a representative.
VIII. ADJOURN
There was a motion to adjourn by Joeci Gilchr e st, seconded by  A na  
Lockwood . Roll call vote . Joeci Gilchrest aye, Cathy Clark aye, Maryrae 
Holman aye, Ana Lockwood aye.
The meeting closed at 7:11 PM