===PAGE 1===
 Town  of  Lunenburg 
 Economic  Development  Committee 
 June  6,  2024 
 Ritter  Memorial  Building 
 960  Massachusetts  Ave. 
 Lunenburg,  MA  01462 
 Present  Members:  Chair  Cathy  Clark,  Member  Jeanne  Dupre,  Member  Ana  Lockwood 
 Absent  Members:  Member  Joeci  Gilchrest,  Member  Maryrae  Holman 
 I.  CALL  TO  ORDER 
 The  meeting  opened  at  6:26  PM. 
 II.  APPROVAL  OF  MINUTES 
 There  was  a  motion  to  approve  the  minutes  from  July  28,  2022,  August 
 25,  2022,  November  10,  2022,  August  24,  2023,  by  Ana  Lockwood, 
 seconded  by  Jeanne  Dupre.  All  in  favor. 
 III.  NEW  BUSINESS  CHALLENGES  DISCUSSION 
 Cathy  Clark  wants  to  invite  a  new  business  owner,  Mike  Couture,  to  an 
 upcoming  meeting  as  there  has  been  frustration  and  issues  with  his 
 business  opening  in  Town. 
 Ana  Lockwood  suggests  having  a  joint  meeting  with  the  Planning  Board 
 and  the  consultant  that  has  temporarily  filled  the  Land  Use  Director 
 position.  Cathy  Clark  will  email  Matt  Brenner  about  scheduling  a  joint 
 meeting. 
 There  was  a  brief  discussion  about  the  last  Select  Board  meeting.  Cathy 
 Clark  is  concerned  about  the  restaurant  Reboot  owing  so  much  money. 
 The  Board  of  Selectmen  were  contemplating  revoking  their  license.  There 
 was  general  confusion  as  to  why  the  Sewer  Commission  Representative 
 shared  all  the  different  payments.  Generally,  the  Committee  felt  that  too 
 much  information  was  shared.  Ana  Lockwood  believes  this  should  be 
 publicized  as  it  is  public  record,  Cathy  Clark  questions  what  the  protocol  is 
 relative  to  someone  owing  a  large  amount.  Also,  there  are  questions  about 
 whether  there  was  any  mediation  by  the  Town  or  if  the  Town  Manager  had 
 made  any  contact.  Cathy  Clark  wants  to  know  if  there  is  a  different  way  to 
 handle  the  situation  so  that  there  are  no  other  businesses  in  Town  that 
 must  shut  down.  There  is  a  consensus  and  inquiry  into  how  other  towns 
 handle  similar  circumstances. 
===PAGE 2===
 There  were  some  brief  updates  about  open  business  locations  and  the 
 status  of  business  plans.  There  has  been  no  further  movements  or 
 updates  about  the  Summer  Street  restaurant,  Ruby  Donuts,  or 
 Kabob-e-licious 
 Cathy  Clark  questions  if  there  is  a  better  system  to  find  out  what  business 
 certificates  are  in  Town.  Ana  Lockwood  mentions  a  platform  that  the  Town 
 of  Westford  uses  as  a  combined  document  center.  Cathy  Clark  is 
 interested  in  utilizing  this  portion  of  the  platform.  Ana  Lockwood  suggests 
 creating  a  specific  request  related  to  a  bylaw  and  an  interpretation  to  bring 
 to  the  Planning  Board  meeting.  Cathy  Clark  is  going  to  review  emails  to 
 obtain  more  specific  information  to  be  added  to  a  bylaw. 
 Cathy  Clark  shares  that  Cable  Access  has  started  an  “Open  for  Business” 
 segment.  The  filming  with  Maryrae  Holman  has  already  been  completed 
 and  will  be  airing  soon. 
 This  discussion  will  continue  into  the  next  meeting  scheduled  for  June  27. 
 IV.  MEET  AND  GREET  DISCUSSION 
 Cathy  Clark  believes  that  the  LBA  should  take  the  lead  and  the  Economic 
 Committee  be  secondary.  Joeci  Gilchrist  was  not  present  at  the  meeting 
 so  this  will  be  postponed.  Currently,  there  is  no  tentatively  scheduled  date. 
 V.  PUBLIC  COMMENT 
 There  was  no  public  comment. 
 VI.  MEMBER  UPDATES/COMMENTS 
 There  were  no  member  updates  or  comments. 
 VII.  ADJOURN 
 There  was  a  motion  to  adjourn  by  Ana  Lockwood,  seconded  by  Jeanne 
 Dupre.  All  in  favor. 
 The  meeting  closed  at  6:58  PM. 