===PAGE 1===
TOWN OF LUNENBURG
Economic Development Committee
Virtual Meeting
August 18 , 2025
Present Members : Chair  Joeci Gilchrest, Vice Chair Ana Lockwood , Planning Board 
Representative Matt Brenner, Member  Cathy Clark, Member Jeanne Dupre, Town 
Manager Jennifer Warren-Dyment
Absent Member: Agriculture Commission Representative Maryrae Holman
The meeting opened at 6:00 PM .
1. Reorganization
 Joeci Gilchrest volunteered to be the  Chair, this was  seconded by A na 
L ockwood. Cathy  Clark  aye, Jeanne Dupre  aye, A na Lockwood aye, Joeci 
Gilchrest aye . All in  favor.
Joeci Gilchrest  nominated A na Lockwood for the V ice C hair  position . Ana  
Lockwood  accepted  the nomination . Cathy Clark aye, Jeanne Dupre  aye,  Joeci 
Gilchrest  aye,  Ana Lockwood aye . All in favor.
2. Town Official Meet and Greet
 Joeci Gilchrest is d isappointed with the  lack of meetings  and states nothing  has  
been completed for this event.
Jeanne Dupre  questions if  this event is more suitable to be handled by the 
Lunenburg Business Association as opposed to the Economic Development 
Committee.  Joeci Gilchrest states that the LBA  can ’t direct town initiatives.  Matt 
Brenner believes this event is associated with the charge of the EDC.
Jennifer Warren-Dyment suggests pushing the  event into the winter season. Ana 
Lockwood suggests using the school location or the senior center  if this is 
scheduled during the winter months .
Ultimately, Joeci Gilchrest suggests reaching out to Smoke s tack Roaster s  as a 
possible venue and pushing the event into October. 
Matt  Brenner  suggests  putting together a subgroup that does not constitute  a 
quorum for planning purposes. Additionally, discussion  a n d  decisions could be 
made in a timelier  manner .
Joeci Gilchrest will create an invitation on Eventbrite and provide the Committee 
with the list of tasks used at previous M eet and G reets.
3. Planning Department Updates
 Matt Brenner provided the following updates:
 There is a new administrat or for the Planning Board Department, Jennifer 
===PAGE 2===
Daigle.
 Brian Gingras  has been a v ery helpful asset  as there is no L and U se 
D irector.
 Adam Burney is  volunteering on the Plan ning Board  until the next election.
Matt Brenner  confirms the Planning Department  wants to continue  supporting the
EDC despite the lack of staff.
4. Discussion of Committee Charge
 The charge was created by the Planning Board,  and the EDC is an ad hoc 
committee to the Planning Board.  There will be further discussion when there is a 
Land Use Director in place.
5. Business Updates  
 Joeci Gilchrest confirms the LBA does have upcoming events with opportunity to 
meet  locals.
There was discussion about an email from Cathy Clark  with business updates.
6. Next steps: Mission and Vision of the EDC
 Matt Brenner suggests the EDC members start thinking about what their 
committee  is tasked to do and what they would like to see with the Committee moving
forward. 
Joeci Gilchrest would like to seek ou t resources , connections , and education for 
the Committee.
Jennifer Warren-Dyment  states she has seen prior communities struggle 
connecting to businesses directly. She suggests reaching out to the Chamber of 
Commerce, other municipalities, and other Economic Development Committee s .
7. Dates and times for regularly scheduled meetings
 Ana Lockwood suggests sending a survey to the members to check availability.
Joeci Gilchrest shared that the Small Town  In itiative  created by Margaret 
Scar s dale currently does not have a Lunenburg  representative.
The re was a discussion about prior  meeting minutes . There are many missing  
minutes online that had previously been approved but haven ’t been  posted.
There was a motion to adjourn by Joe c i Gilchrest, seconded by Ana Lockwood. Joeci 
Gilchrest aye,  Ana Lockwood aye.
The meeting closed  at 7:20 PM .