===PAGE 78===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 74 – 
Table 17. Correlations Between School Attributes and District-Level School Segregation Measures 
Segregation index 
measure % churn % LI 
students 
% EL 
students 
% avg 
attendance 
rate 
% 
students 
disciplined 
% teacher 
retention 
% high 
needs 
%  
stability 
Avg 
absences 
White— Black –0.56 –0.68 –0.51 0.47 –0.23 0.34 –0.68 0.54 –0.45 
White— Hispanic –0.65 –0.81 –0.69 0.59 –0.34 0.41 –0.82 0.61 –0.57 
White— Asian –0.31 –0.19 –0.46 0.08 –0.09 0.19 –0.30 0.31 –0.06 
Seg Wht— NAM –0.19 –0.38 –0.32 0.22 –0.08 0.22 –0.38 0.20 –0.22 
Seg Wht— Min –0.66 –0.82 –0.69 0.58 –0.34 0.41 –0.84 0.62 –0.55 
Seg WAS— Min –0.64 –0.83 –0.67 0.58 –0.34 0.41 –0.83 0.59 –0.56 
White— Non-White –0.65 –0.76 –0.70 0.52 –0.31 0.40 –0.80 0.62 –0.50 
FRL— non-FRL 0.70 0.90 0.67 –0.63 0.33 –0.40 0.90 –0.65 0.61 
Note. The “% churn” is the percentage of students who transfer in and out of the district in a school year. The “% LI students” is the 
percentage of students in the school classified as being from a low income background. The “% EL students” is the percentage of 
students classified as English learners. The “% attendance rate” is the percentage of days attended in the school year. The “% students 
disciplined” is the percentage of students disciplined. The “% teacher retention” is the percentage of teachers working in the same 
position across 2 school years. The “% high needs” is the percentage of students classified as at least one of the following: being from a 
low income background, being an English learner, or having an IEP. The “% stability” is the percentage of students remaining in the 
same school throughout the school year. The “Avg absences” is the average number of days students are absent. White–Black isolation 
measures how concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a district, considering only White and Black 
students. White— Hispanic isolation measures how concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a 
district, considering only White and Hispanic students. White— Asian isolation measures how concentrated White students are in their 
typical school environment within a district, considering only White and Asian students. Seg WH— NAM isolation measures how 
===PAGE 79===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 75 – 
concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a district, considering only White and Native American 
students. Seg WH— Min isolation measures how concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a district, 
considering only White and Minority students. Seg WAS— Min isolation measures how concentrated White and Asian students are in 
their typical school environment within a district, considering only White, Asian, and minority students. White–Non-White isolation 
measures how concentrated White students are in their typical school environment within a district, considering only White and Non-
White students. FRL–non-FRL isolation measures how concentrated FRL-eligible students are in their typical school environment within 
a district. Source: Massachusetts public school profile data and education opportunity segregation index data. 
===PAGE 80===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 76 – 
How does MCAS performance differ for those just below compared with 
those just above screener benchmarks identifying students as at risk? 
The goal of early literacy screening is to identify students who may benefit from additional 
support in getting on track as readers. Under a Multi-Tiered System of Supports (MTSS), 
students identified as significantly below benchmark are expected to receive intensive 
intervention, while their peers just above the benchmark may not. Although we lack data on 
whether or how services were provided, we conducted an exploratory analysis comparing 
outcomes for grade 3 students just below versus those just above each benchmark. 
We used a quasi-experimental method, regression discontinuity design (RDD), to examine 
differences in grade 3 spring MCAS scores for students near the cut scores on BOY screening 
assessments. Two analyses were conducted: one focused on students near the significantly 
below benchmark cut score (within ±0.5 SD, n = 8,933) and another focused on students near 
the below benchmark cut score (within ±0.9 SD, n = 15,926). Because students took MCAS at 
the end of the year, this design allows time for any interventions to take effect. The analysis 
was conducted separately by screening assessment given the known differences in risk 
benchmarks. 
Overall, students just above and students just below the benchmark cut scores performed 
similarly on MCAS. One exception was in i-Ready (below benchmark), in which students above 
the cut score scored 4.2 scale score points higher on average than those below (t = 2.89, 
p < .01). We also found that for DIBELS 8th Edition, the relationship between screening scores 
and MCAS outcomes was significantly stronger for students below the cut score than for those 
above, with a slope difference of approximately 9 points (t = –5.03, p < .001). 
Some screening assessments, including i-Ready and Star Reading, also showed stronger 
screening–MCAS relationships for students below the cut score compared with those above. 
However, most other screener-specific effects were not statistically significant. 
In the analysis using the significantly below benchmark cut score, we found no statistically 
significant differences in MCAS outcomes for students just above versus those just below the 
cut score across screening assessments. While there were descriptive differences in slope 
across some screening assessments— for example, FastBridge aReading appeared to have a 
negative relationship below the cut and a positive one above— these differences were not 
statistically significant. 
Importantly, the absence of a detectable MCAS difference for students significantly below 
benchmark does not imply that early literacy interventions are ineffective. First, MCAS scores 
may not detect gains among the lowest performing students well. A student could move from 
very low to moderately low reading ability without showing a measurable MCAS gain. Second, 
interventions may be preventive, helping students maintain their skills rather than fall further 
behind. Such benefits would not be captured in our comparison unless a true control group 
===PAGE 81===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 77 – 
(with no services) were available. Therefore, these results should be interpreted with caution 
and not as evidence against the value of early intervention. 
Are there schools where students are “outperforming” expectations in 
terms of achievement and/or growth within the school year, based on 
the demographics of students and/or schools or other factors?  
Educational researchers have long sought to identify schools that “beat the odds”— that is, 
schools that achieve better outcomes than would be expected based on the demographics and 
characteristics of the students they serve. In 2023/24, we used a multilevel logistic regression 
model to identify such schools, statistically adjusting for differences in student background, 
school context, and district-level school segregation. This approach enables comparisons across 
schools that are more valid by identifying those that perform better than predicted, not simply 
those with the lowest rates of risk. 
Using the school-level random effects from our model, we identified seven schools with the 
lowest adjusted likelihood of students being flagged as significantly below benchmark more 
than once during the year (Table 18). The analysis was conducted both with and without 
segregation measures, and the same schools were identified in both cases, suggesting a robust 
pattern. These schools represent the strongest outliers in terms of performance relative to their 
contexts rather than absolute performance alone. Several additional schools had low rates of 
risk identification, but either they served relatively advantaged populations or we could not 
identify more than two similar schools for comparison within the screener data sample. 
The range in risk identification among these outperforming schools is substantial, spanning 
from 14 to 28 percent.  
Most schools on the list serve moderate- to high-need student populations. School 1 and School 
2 both serve student bodies in which more than 70 percent of students are from low income 
backgrounds, and yet they report risk rates of only 14.9 and 16.5 percent, respectively. These 
figures are lower than predicted based on their school contexts, suggesting that effective 
practices may be helping to buffer students from academic risk. 
Several schools on the list serve some of the highest need student populations in the state. For 
example, School 7 and School 6 serve student populations with about 80 percent of students 
from low income backgrounds and English learner rates exceeding 30 percent. Despite serving a 
population of students with relatively high need, their risk rates were significantly lower than 
expected after adjusting for all student, school, and district variables. Their presence on this list 
illustrates that having high populations of students from historically marginalized groups does 
not preclude strong performance. 
Across schools, certain features appear consistently. Every school maintained an attendance 
rate above 90 percent, with most exceeding 93 percent. Discipline incidents were rare, with the 
vast majority of schools reporting that fewer than 2 percent of students had disciplinary events 
during the year. Notably, many of these schools also serve high percentages of students 
===PAGE 82===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 78 – 
classified as high-need— including students who are from low income backgrounds, are English 
learners, or receive special education services. The fact that these schools emerged as 
outperformers after adjusting for those characteristics provides compelling evidence that 
strong outcomes are possible even in schools serving complex student populations. 
Table 18. Schools Identified as Outperforming 
School 
identifier 
% 
significantly 
below 
benchmark 
multiple 
times 
% LI 
students 
Average 
school 
attendance 
rate 
Number of 
students 
disciplined 
% EL 
students 
% high 
needs 
students 
Number 
of 
students 
1 14.9 71.2 94.5 0.2 26.9 82.3 483 
2 16.5 75 94.2 0.0 14.8 81.1 176 
3 19.6 61.8 92.7 1.6 35.5 82.2 176 
4 24.4 64.4 92 1.9 46.5 83.6 331 
5 25.2 66.1 93.8 0.5 49.2 85.3 203 
6 25.5 78.7 92.8 1.4 39.3 88.5 359 
7 28.0 83.3 92.6 0.0 31.8 91.4 139 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
To further illustrate how these outperforming schools differ from their peers, we identified 
comparison schools with similar demographic and contextual characteristics. For each 
outperforming school, matches were selected based on a set of proximity criteria: comparison 
schools had to fall within 15 percent of the focal school’s values on key variables— percentage 
of students from low income backgrounds, attendance rate, percentage of English learners, and 
percentage of high needs students— and within 30 percent of enrollment size. For instance, a 
school with 50 percent students from low income backgrounds would be compared with 
schools with rates between 42.5 and 57.5 percent. 
Table 19 summarizes these comparisons. Of the seven outperforming schools, all had at least 
four comparable schools.  
The results show consistent and often substantial differences in the percentage of students 
identified as significantly below benchmark multiple times ranging from about 11 to 
27.5 percentage points in favor of the outperforming schools. 
===PAGE 83===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 79 – 
The size of these gaps is particularly notable among schools serving high-need populations. For 
example, School 2 had 16.5 percent of students identified as multiply at risk compared with 
34.6 percent in its matched peers— a gap of 18.1 percentage points. Similarly, School 1 
reported a rate of 14.9 percent versus 42.3 percent in comparison schools, a difference of 
27.4 percentage points. Other high-need schools, such as Schools 6 and 4, also showed sizable 
differences of 23.0 and 19.9 percentage points, respectively. 
These comparisons reinforce that the identified schools are not simply succeeding because of 
advantageous demographics. Instead, they represent clear exceptions to prevailing 
performance patterns. The results suggest that substantial improvements in early literacy 
outcomes are achievable— even in high-need contexts— when schools implement effective 
instructional practices and foster strong, supportive learning environments. 
Table 19. Comparison School Percentages of Students Significantly Below Benchmark 
Multiple Times 
School 
identifier 
% significantly 
below 
benchmark 
multiple times 
Comparison % 
significantly 
below 
benchmark 
multiple times 
(average) 
Number of 
comparison 
schools 
Difference in % 
of significantly 
below 
benchmark 
1 14.9 42.3 4.0 –27.5 
2 16.5 34.6 6.0 –18.2 
3 19.6 30.3 8.0 –10.7 
4 24.4 44.3 8.0 –19.9 
5 25.2 41.2 7.0 –15.9 
6 25.5 48.6 8.0 –23.0 
7 28.0 45.4 7.0 –17.4 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
  
===PAGE 84===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 80 – 
English Learner Student Performance 
Key Findings 
• The vast majority of English learners in the available data are screened only in English 
(about 10 percent of English learner students took Spanish language screening 
assessments).  
• Star screening assessments were the most commonly administered Spanish-language 
assessments in the screening assessment data. 
• Most students who took Star Spanish-language assessments were English learners 
taught primarily in English with a home language of Spanish. 
• Risk identification rates for English learners remained relatively stable throughout the 
year, particularly for students assessed in Spanish, suggesting limited change in 
Spanish literacy skills over the school year. 
• Screening in both languages generally yielded consistent results, though differences 
emerged based on assessment level and language. 
• Students screened with mismatched assessment levels (different levels in English 
versus Spanish) showed distinct risk patterns, emphasizing the need for careful 
interpretation of such data at the school level. 
Massachusetts’s K–3 population includes several thousand students who speak Spanish as a 
home language, participate in Spanish-English dual language bilingual education (DLBE) 
programs, take Spanish-language literacy screening assessments, or engage in some 
combination of these three activities. For a variety of reasons, these students’ screener results 
may differ from students who speak, test, and learn only in English. For example, students 
participating in DLBE programs have been shown to follow different language development and 
achievement trajectories over time (Umansky & Reardon, 2014) compared with multilingual 
students educated only in English. Based on these differential trajectories, literacy norms based 
on monolingual students receiving monolingual English instruction may be inappropriate or 
inaccurate for predicting whether DLBE students are at risk or are developing appropriately. 
Relatedly, research on multilingualism generally confirms that individuals have different 
strengths, knowledge, and profiles in each language (as opposed to knowing and being able to 
do exactly the same things in each language) such that measuring only one language may paint 
a distorted or incomplete picture of students’ language abilities (Faulkner-Bond et al., 2020; 
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, 2017).  
DESE’s Early Literacy Screening Guidance (DESE, 2023) and Massachusetts Dyslexia Guidelines 
(DESE, 2020) both include several recommendations for screening multilingual learners. These 
recommendations include screening students in both their home language and English when 
===PAGE 85===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 81 – 
appropriate tools are available, supplementing assessment-based information with 
observation-based protocols, and comparing these students’ results to a set of more closely 
matched “true peers” rather than to the full population of primarily monolingual English 
speaking students. A general theme across these recommendations is to collect additional 
information about the literacy development of multilingual students when possible and to 
interpret their results with more nuance and context than may be needed for monolingual 
English students.  
Following up on preliminary analyses conducted with 2020/21 and 2021/22 data with the larger 
data set available in 2023/24, we further explore the characteristics, achievement profiles, and 
trajectories of students who participated in Spanish-language screening in grades K–3. The 
goals and research questions of these analyses include the following:  
1. Understand which students participate in these assessments. 
a. How many students participate in Spanish-language screening assessments? 
b. What Spanish-language screening assessments are used in the state? 
c. What are the characteristics of students who participate in Spanish-language 
screening assessments? 
d. To what extent are students who participate in Spanish-language screening 
assessments also being taught in Spanish? 
2. Describe achievement profiles in each language and relative to the profiles of students 
who are screened in English, and explore whether students’ language of instruction or 
time in English learner status is associated with different achievement profiles, 
trajectories, or predictive relationships.  
a. To what extent are through-year score patterns on Spanish-language assessments 
similar to patterns on English-language assessments?  
b. To what extent do Spanish-language screening assessment outcomes agree with 
English-language versions? When the results of each screener diverge, are there 
any patterns to the disagreement? 
How many students participate in Spanish-language screening 
assessments? 
Available data suggest that screening students in languages other than English is still a rare 
practice in the state. In the screening data sample, only 2.4 percent of all students and 
approximately 9 percent of all English Learners took a Spanish language screener at any point 
===PAGE 86===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 82 – 
during the 2023/24 school year.22 These percentages suggest that the most common 
experience for all students, regardless of what languages they use in school or at home, is still 
to be screened in English only.  
What Spanish-language screening assessments are used in the state? 
Many of the approved screening assessment publishers provide Spanish language assessments 
that are designed to function similarly to their English-language counterparts. In the 2023/24 
school year data, data for four of these Spanish-language screening assessments were 
available: FastBridge earlyReading Spanish, mCLASS Lectura, Star Early Literacy Spanish, and 
Star Reading Spanish. A total of 3,561 unique students (2.4% of all students in our sample) 
participated in one of these four Spanish-language screening assessments during the 2023/24 
school year (Table 20).23  
Of these, the two Star assessments were by far the most widely used in the screening 
assessment data sample, representing 95 percent of all students who participated in Spanish-
language screening assessments (3,372 students). The mCLASS Lectura and FastBridge 
earlyReading Spanish accounted for <1 percent and 6 percent of students tested in Spanish, 
respectively. Based on the dominance of the Star assessments and the small sample sizes 
available for the other two Spanish-language screening assessments, in this section we focus 
only on students taking the Star assessments. 
Table 20. Number and Percentage of Students Who Participated in Spanish-Language 
Screening Assessments in 2023/24 
Early literacy screening 
assessment 
Number of 
participants 
Percentage of all 
participants  
Percentage of 
Spanish-
language 
participants 
FastBridge earlyReading 
Spanish 
3 <0.1% <0.1% 
Star Early Literacy Spanish 2,533 1.7% 71.1% 
Star Reading Spanish 839 0.56% 23.6% 
mCLASS Lectura 186 0.12% 5.2% 
Total 3,561 2.4% 100% 
 
22 The screening data sample includes about half of the schools serving K–3 students in the 
state, but it is possible that some schools reported only English-language screening 
assessment data. 
23 Note that these numbers include some students who took “off grade level” Spanish-language 
screening assessments such as Star Early Literacy in grades 2 or 3. 
===PAGE 87===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 83 – 
Note. Students may appear in multiple rows if they took more than one screening assessment. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
What are the characteristics of students who participate in Spanish-
language screening assessments? 
The 3,372 students who participated in Star Spanish-language screening assessments were 
largely homogeneous on several key characteristics (Figure 21). First, and unsurprisingly, the 
vast majority of these students (3,171; 94%) spoke Spanish as their home language. The second 
most reported home language in this group was English— a common finding in English learner 
data (e.g., see NCES, 2024) that is generally interpreted as representing students who live in 
multilingual households or students who were raised speaking another language but currently 
live in households where English is spoken. Fewer than 3 percent of students reported speaking 
a language other than Spanish or English at home. 
Second, and also not surprisingly, the vast majority of students participating in Star Spanish-
language (3,100 students; 92%) were English learners at the time they were screened. 
Approximately 7 percent of participants (235 students) had never been English learners, and 
just over 1 percent of participants (37 students) were former English learners.  
Third, the vast majority of students participating in Star Spanish-language (3,216; 95%) 
participated in assessments in both English and Spanish. These data suggest that most districts 
that screen students in Spanish are adhering to DESE’s recommended practice of screening 
students in all of their languages to get a picture of student skills and capabilities across their 
full linguistic repertoire. 
Finally, as we discuss more in the next section, the majority of students who took these 
screening assessments (2,757 individuals; 82%) were enrolled in English-only instructional 
programs (structured English immersion [SEI] programs).  
In other respects, the population of students participating in Spanish-language screening 
assessments largely resembled the population of students taking English-language screening 
assessments: 50 percent (1,688) were female, 13 percent (433) received special education 
services, and 85 percent (2,864) were classified as coming from low income backgrounds. 
===PAGE 88===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 84 – 
Figure 21. Most Students Participating in Star Spanish-Language Screening 
Assessments Were Current English Learners, Were Screened in English and Spanish, 
Had a Home Language of Spanish, and Were Taught in English 
 
Note. The first bar shows the percentage of EL students whose native language is Spanish. The 
second bar shows the percentage of EL students who are current EL students (with the 
remainder former or never English learners). The third bar shows the percentage of students 
taking Spanish and English. The fourth bar shows the percentage of students in different EL 
programs who are in SEI programs (other programs include dual language, not enrolled, parent 
opted out). Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October and June SIMS 
collection data. 
Among students who took Star assessments in Spanish, one other notable characteristic within 
the sample is the prevalence of “off grade” testing, particularly in Grade 2 (Table 21). As noted 
elsewhere in this report, Star Early Literacy is generally recommended for students in  
grades K–1, while Star Reading is recommended for most students in grades 2–3. Table 21 
shows that these recommendations are generally being followed. Seventy-two percent of all 
students (2,131 individuals) took either the Early Literacy assessments in grades K–1 
(1,423 students) or the Reading assessments in grades 2–3 (708 students). However, the next 
largest group of students was 1,678 students (57% of all students tested in both languages) in 
grades 2–3 who took the Early Literacy screener in one (755 students) or both (923 students) 
languages, despite this screener being recommended for earlier grades only. It is possible that 
this trend reflects a practice of screening students considered at risk in English using the more 
foundational assessments as a check, though this could not be confirmed in the data. As Table 
21 shows, this group did not stand out from others based on their disability status, nor did they 
appear to participate in DLBE programs at notably higher rates than other groups. This group 
(students in grades 2–3 who were also screened using the Early Literacy assessment in English) 
did have a slightly higher proportion of students classified as new to U.S. schools, suggesting 
===PAGE 89===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 85 – 
that schools may also be using this practice to assess foundational skills for students who are 
enrolling in the U.S. school system for the first time after the earliest grades.  
Table 21. Percentage of Students Taking “Off Grade Level” Star Assessments in 
Spanish and/or English 
Student 
grade 
levels 
Assessment All  
(N) 
All  
(%) 
Receiving 
special 
education 
services 
SEI DLBE 
1st 
year in 
U.S. 
K–1 On grade in 
both 
languages 
1,423 37% 10% 81% 13% 56% 
2–3 On grade in 
both 
languages 
708 18% 14% 87% 4% 8% 
K–1 “Off-grade” 
(above) in 
Spanish 
14 <1% 0% 43% 29% 36% 
K–1 “Off grade” 
(above) in 
English 
55 1% 5% 84% 4% 27% 
K–1 “Off grade” 
(above) both 
languages 
Sup 
data 
Sup 
data 
Sup data Sup 
data 
Sup 
data 
Sup 
data 
2–3 “Off grade” 
(below) in 
Spanish 
432 11% 14% 94% 0% 9% 
2–3 “Off grade” 
(below) in 
English 
323 8% 17% 89% 3% 16% 
2–3 “Off grade” 
(below) both 
languages 
923 24% 17% 87% 6% 14% 
Note. Students may appear in multiple rows if they took more than two screening assessments. 
“Sup data” means that data for student groups with fewer than 10 students are not shown in 
===PAGE 90===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 86 – 
order to protect student privacy. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October 
and June SIMS collection data. 
To what extent are students who participated in Spanish-language 
screening assessments also being taught in Spanish? 
Spanish language screening may be particularly appropriate for students who are participating in 
DLBE programs, in which anywhere from 50 to 90 percent of instruction (including instruction of 
academic content) is provided in a language other than English (LOTE) or a partner language. 
Since students in DLBE programs are used to learning and expressing their ideas in a LOTE, they 
may be more likely to benefit from an assessment that invites their response in the language 
they are accustomed to using in school. By contrast, Spanish-language assessments may be less 
helpful for students— including multilingual students— who are instructed only in English 
because these students may be unaccustomed to using their home language in the context of 
academic activities and expression. For example, multilingual students who have been taught 
“heart words” or “sight words” in English only may not be able to easily identify these same 
words if presented with them Spanish. 
DLBE Programs and Related Research  
Depending on the model it uses, a DLBE program may enroll all or exclusively English learners  
(a one-way immersion program), all or exclusively English-only students (a one-way immersion 
world language program), or a mix of English learners and English-only students (a two-way 
immersion program). Research (Bilber, 2022; Morales, 2024; Palacios et al, 2024; Steele et al, 
2017; Umansky & Reardon, 2014; Valentino & Reardon, 2015) has consistently found evidence 
that DLBE programs produce comparable or superior academic and linguistic outcomes in 
English for English learner students over time, with the additional advantages of social–
emotional benefits and full bilingualism and biliteracy in the partner language. 
Starting in 2018 with the passage of the Language Opportunities for Our Kids (LOOK) Act, DESE 
has sought to increase the number of DLBE programs in the state and thereby expand 
students’, and particularly English learners’, access to such instructional opportunities. As these 
expansion efforts continue, a majority of all students in Massachusetts, including English 
learners, continue to receive instruction in monolingual English learning environments.  
In the 2023/24 school year, DESE reported 2,790 K–3 English learners (5.6%) enrolled in DLBE 
programs compared with 46,483 (93.1%) in SEI programs. Given this context, it is perhaps 
unsurprising that, among students who took Spanish-language screening assessments, the vast 
majority of students (2,528 students; 89%) were enrolled in SEI programs to help them learn 
English (Table 22). Just over 10 percent of participants (324 individuals; all but one student 
===PAGE 91===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 87 – 
currently classified as English learners) participated in DLBE programs. This finding is important 
for contextualizing the results that are reported in the remainder of this section because a 
student’s language of instruction is likely to interact with and affect their literacy development 
in that language and the potential validity and utility of their scores on screening assessments in 
that language. 
Table 22. Number of Students Who Took Star Spanish-Language Screening 
Assessments by English Learner Status and English Language Education (ELE) Program 
ELE program Current EL Never EL Former EL 
No program 0 210 (100%) 33 (97%) 
Structured English immersion 2,528 (89%) 0 0 
Dual language education 323 (11%) 0 Sup data 
Guardian opted out Sup data 0 0 
Total 2,851 210 334 
Note. Dual language education includes DLBE, other bilingual programs, and transitional 
bilingual education. Never EL is defined as a student who was never classified as an English 
Learner. Former EL is defined as a student who is not currently an English learner but who has 
been in the past. “Sup data” means that data for student groups with fewer than 10 students 
are not shown in order to protect student privacy. Source: Early literacy screening assessment 
data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
To what extent are through-year score patterns on Star Spanish-language 
assessments similar to patterns on English-language assessments? 
Current and prior reporting on early literacy screening assessment data has found that, in 
general, students tend to stay in the same risk category over the course of the year. In the 
2023/24 school year, for example, 61 percent of students who began the year significantly 
below benchmark were still at that level at the end of the year, while 89 percent of students 
who began the year not significantly below ended the year at the same status (not significantly 
below). English learner students who take the English-language Star assessments are even more 
likely to remain significantly below benchmark if they begin the year that way (73% of students 
end the year in this status compared with only 61% among all students).  
Among the subset of English learner students who had a score on an English-language Star 
screener during each time period of the school year (5,189 students; 65% of the sample), the 
proportion not significantly below benchmark increased from 27 percent at BOY to 41 percent 
at EOY, while the proportion of students significantly below benchmark decreased from 
===PAGE 92===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 88 – 
73 percent at BOY to 59 percent at EOY (Figure 22). This decrease is largely driven by students 
who improved at MOY and then remained not significantly below benchmark at EOY. In 
general, students who started significantly below benchmark remained significantly below 
benchmark across the year. 
Although the patterns observed for this subset of English learner students are similar to the 
pattern in the overall population (Figure 22), these students showed more movement in their 
risk statuses over the course of the year compared with the overall population (Figure 12). They 
were also more likely to go from not being at significant risk to being at significant risk in the 
following time period than the overall population was. For example, in the overall student 
population, among students who were not significantly below benchmark at MOY and at BOY, 
95 percent were not significantly below benchmark at EOY (Figure 12); this drops to 87 percent 
among the English-screened English learner students. So, although it appears there are 
improvements in performance across the school year for English learner students screened in 
English, positive performance is less consistent throughout the school year than among the 
overall sample of students.  
Figure 22. Most English Learner Students Who Were Screened in English Maintained 
the Same Risk Level From BOY to EOY 
 
Note. See Figure 22 in Appendix F for a full description of this figure. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 93===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 89 – 
Interestingly, English learner students who took Star Spanish-language screening assessments 
were also likely to end the year at the same risk level— but with more downward movement 
compared with those who took Star English-language screening assessments. For example, 
87 percent of students who started the year not significantly below benchmark on an English-
language screener remained there at EOY compared with 82 percent of students who took 
Spanish-language screening assessments. Additionally, the percentage of English learner 
students significantly below benchmark dropped from 73 percent in BOY to 59 percent in EOY 
for students taking an English-language screener but stayed virtually the same for English 
learner students taking a Spanish-language screener (Figure 23).  
Figure 23. The Proportion of Students At Risk Based on Spanish-Language Screening 
Assessments Was Largely Stable From BOY to EOY 
 
Note. See Figure 23 in Appendix F for a full description of this figure. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
This lack of change from BOY to EOY in the proportion of students at significant risk is explained 
by student shifts in performance over time. Among English learner students who started not 
significantly below benchmark in Spanish at BOY, nearly a third (29%) moved to a lower 
performance level at MOY (significantly below), and a majority of these (72%) remained in that 
status at EOY. Similarly, although 17 percent of students who started significantly below 
===PAGE 94===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 90 – 
benchmark in Spanish at BOY moved to a higher performance level at MOY, roughly half of 
these students (51%) moved back down to significantly below benchmark at EOY. These 
patterns may stem from the fact that the vast majority of students being screened in Spanish 
are not being instructed in Spanish. While students’ development of their home language 
presumably continues outside of school, their knowledge, and ways of using Spanish may not 
align with the skills assessed on a literacy screener. 
To what extent do Spanish-language screening assessment outcomes 
agree with English-language versions? When the results of each 
screener diverge, are there any patterns to the disagreement? 
As noted in earlier sections, research suggests that multilingual learners may have distinct 
strengths and weaknesses in their different languages. Such differences may stem from a 
variety of factors, including the language(s) in which they are instructed at school and the ways 
they use their home language outside of school (e.g., the extent to which they read or are read 
to in their home language; the extent to which they speak or are spoken to in their home 
language; or the extent to which they consume media like television, movies, games, or 
podcasts in their home language) (NASEM, 2017). This reality makes it possible— even likely—
that students may receive different scores or risk categorizations from the different screening 
assessments they take. Particularly in cases of students who are deemed to be at risk by the 
English-language screener, divergent results can be informative and may add important context 
for determinations of which students are genuinely at risk of reading problems or disabilities. 
For example, if students are deemed at risk in English but not in Spanish, this may suggest a 
need for more information or screening to differentiate between typical second language 
development (which may not be used to justify a disability determination) and a potential 
learning disability (U.S. Department of Justice & U.S. Department of Education, Office of Civil 
Rights, 2015). Such students may benefit from opportunities to more directly and explicitly 
connect and leverage their home language to support their English development, or from 
changes to how they are being taught English as a language.  
Overall, the data for students who take Spanish and English-language assessments show that 
the screening assessments agree with one another more often than not. As seen in Table 23, 
when students are screened in both English and Spanish, their risk levels align across the two 
assessments a majority of the time (between 63% and 73%, depending on the time period and 
the combination of tests). Notably, this agreement held even when students took different 
screening assessments in Spanish versus English (e.g., if they took the Early Literacy screener in 
one language and the Reading screener in the other; we address these instances of mismatched 
concurrent screening in more depth later). The data in this section consist primarily of 
18 schools; there are a few additional schools that have fewer than 10 students each.  
===PAGE 95===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 91 – 
Table 23. Risk Identification Agreement Rates for Students Who Took English and 
Spanish-Language Star Screening Assessments 
Risk levels match BOY MOY EOY 
Any 
time 
period 
Early Literacy English— Early Literacy Spanish  
(matched assessments) 
71% 73% 72% 87% 
Reading English— Reading Spanish  
(matched assessments) 
71% 65% 67% 76% 
Early Literacy English— Reading Spanish  
(mismatched; Spanish targets more advanced reading 
skills) 
73% 64% 66% 70% 
Reading English— Early Literacy Spanish  
(mismatched; English targets more advanced reading 
skills) 
64% 63% 64% 67% 
Note. Includes EL and non-EL students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
When risk levels did not align between the two assessments, several patterns emerged. The 
largest group of students with divergent risk levels (n = 455) were those who took Star Early 
Literacy Assessment in both languages in grades K or 1 (Figure 24). This group included a 
roughly even split between English learner students who had attended schools in the United 
States for less than 1 year (n = 199) and those who had attended schools in the United States 
for more than 1 year (n = 230).24 It also included a relatively higher rate of participation in DLBE 
programs (between 2% and 10% of students at any time period) compared with other groups 
we describe.  
Figure 24 shows the proportion of students identified as at significant risk in each language 
(English and Spanish) for all students in this group, with results disaggregated for students who 
attended U.S. schools for less than 1 year (panel 2) or had already spent 1 or more years in 
 
24 Note that while some might consider some of these students “newcomers” based on their 
attendance in U.S. schools for less than 1 year, the majority of English learner students start 
school in kindergarten, like all students, and are thus not necessarily at any disadvantage in 
terms of prior schooling. Additionally, while most English learner students who have attended 
U.S. schools for more than 1 year are presumably in 1st grade and beyond, this group might 
include some kindergarteners if they have participated in a state-sponsored preschool 
program. 
===PAGE 96===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 92 – 
U.S. schools (panel 3).25 The first panel (for all students in this group) shows that, on the Early 
Literacy assessment, the proportion of students deemed to be at risk by the English screener 
was higher than the proportion on the Spanish screener at all points during the year, though 
the discrepancy was highest at BOY (a difference of 40 percentage points). While the risk rates 
in the two languages did converge over the year, this convergence appeared to stem both from 
a decrease in the proportion of students deemed to be at risk by the English-language screener 
and from an increase in the proportion of students deemed to be at risk in Spanish.  
Panels 2 and 3 suggest that English learner students in their 1st year in U.S. schools largely 
drove this trend. These students (shown in panel 2) showed sharp decreases (30 percentage 
points) in English risk rates from BOY to MOY and a comparable increase (of 30 percentage 
points) in Spanish risk rates over the same period. This group stayed on the same trajectory 
from MOY to EOY, but with less dramatic changes (8 percentage points for each group). These 
trends suggest that as these students grew more accustomed to their instructional settings 
(which, as noted, are overwhelmingly English-only), their English screening performance 
improved and their Spanish screening performance decreased. While both screening 
assessments eventually settled at similar risk rates (about 50% in each language by EOY), the 
EOY agreement was 71 percent (similar to Table 23), indicating that nearly one third of students 
were deemed to be at risk in one language but not in the other.  
English learner students attending schools in the United States for 1 or more years (panel 3), by 
contrast, showed essentially no change from BOY to MOY, and slight divergences from MOY to 
EOY (English risk rates increased by 7 percentage points, while Spanish risk rates decreased by 
the same amount). This group also included the most students in DLBE programs (between 
2% and 10% depending on the time of year). 
Taken together, the findings for this group of students suggest that risk rates and agreement 
across languages are affected by the language of instruction. English learner students in their 
1st year in U.S. schools (panel 2) showed considerable decreases in their risk rates in English 
over the course of the year and showed corresponding increases in their Spanish risk rates 
because they spent more time receiving instruction in English. In panel 3, meanwhile, an 
increase in the proportion of students participating in DLBE over the year, where students are 
instructed in both languages, corresponded with a decrease in risk rates on the Spanish 
language screener. 
 
25 Note that per DESE guidance, all English learner students enrolled in their 1st year of 
kindergarten are considered 1st year in the United States. 
===PAGE 97===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 93 – 
Figure 24. Percentages of Students Identified as At Risk on Star Early Literacy English and Spanish Converged Over the 
Year, Particularly for English Learners in Their 1st Year in U.S. Schools  
 
Note. In panel 1, N = 455 at BOY, N = 440 at MOY, and N = 450 at EOY. In panel 2, N = 199 at BOY, N = 180 at MOY, and N = 181 at 
EOY. In panel 3, N = 230 at BOY, N = 243 at MOY, and N = 237 at EOY. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data and October 
and June SIMS collection data. 
===PAGE 98===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 94 – 
Figure 25 shows that risk rates for students who took Star Reading in both languages and had 
divergent risk categorizations were consistently higher on the Spanish screening assessment 
than the English-language screening assessment— the opposite pattern to that observed for 
students taking Star Early Literacy. Since Star Reading is generally recommended for students in 
grades 2 and 3, and since the vast majority of students screened in both languages (between 
86% and 93%, depending on the time of year) are instructed solely in English, it would follow 
that screening in Spanish might be most challenging or irrelevant for this group because in 
some cases they will be completing their 4th year of English-only education. In alignment with 
this interpretation, more than 80 percent of all students in this group had spent at least 1 year 
in U.S. schools. For this group of students, it might be appropriate to seek other data sources 
(e.g., academic achievement scores, teacher or family input) to determine the likelihood of a 
disability or genuine reading risk rather than also administer Spanish-language screening 
assessments.  
Figure 25. Percentages of Students Identified as At Risk Were Relatively Consistent 
From BOY to EOY in Spanish and English for Star Reading 
 
Note. N = 111 at BOY, N = 158 at MOY, and N = 156 at EOY. Source: Early literacy screening 
assessment data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
Among students with divergent risk categorizations in English and Spanish, the majority at each 
time point (between 83% and 87%) took the same screener in both languages. However, in the 
remaining 13 to 17 percent of cases, students took Star Early Literacy (generally recommended 
===PAGE 99===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 95 – 
for grades K or 1) in one language and Star Reading (generally recommended for grades 2 or 3) 
in the other.26  
Risk rates on mismatched screening assessments are shown in Figure 26. The first panel shows 
students who took the more advanced of the two assessments (Star Reading) in English. As one 
might expect, risk rates on the English assessment are higher at all time points for this group, 
though they also decrease over time and generally converge with the risk rates in Spanish. This 
assessment scenario might occur if a school seeks to use the Spanish Early Literacy screener as 
a check on basic skills or linguistic knowledge or a follow-up to an English result that is 
ambiguous or does not seem to align with teacher or family observations. The through-year 
trends suggest that students in this scenario generally improve on their English literacy skills 
over the course of the year, but they do not improve similarly in their Spanish literacy skills. As 
noted elsewhere, these divergent trends may stem from the fact that nearly all students in the 
sample are being instructed in English. To the extent that students are continuing to develop 
skills in Spanish, those skills may not be well-captured by a school-based assessment of literacy 
skills.  
The second panel shows results for students with divergent outcomes who took the more 
advanced assessment (the Reading screener) in Spanish. This scenario was least likely to be 
observed in the sample (no more than 100 students at any time point during the year). The 
data show that, for students screened with this combination of assessments, risk rates were 
consistently higher on the English screener and actually increased over the course of the year, 
while Spanish risk rates decreased. Given these divergent trends and the decrease in risk 
classifications on the more challenging Spanish Reading assessment (relative to the English 
Early Literacy assessment), this group of students might be one that districts should look into 
more carefully or with other data sources before making decisions based on English results 
alone. 
 
26 Notably, very few students in this group (12 or fewer at any time point) were English learners 
in U.S. schools for less than 1 year. As such, it is unlikely that any trends in Figure 26 are 
driven by gaps in formal education or students being new to U.S. schools. 
===PAGE 100===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 96 – 
Figure 26. Patterns of Performance Vary Based on Screener Language and Difficulty  
 
Note. In the first panel, N = 59 at BOY, N = 75 at MOY, and N = 95 at EOY. In the second panel, 
N = 32 at BOY, N = 35 at MOY, and N = 29 at EOY. Source: Early literacy screening assessment 
data and October and June SIMS collection data. 
This analysis offers a first look at screening patterns and performance across the year for 
Massachusetts students taking English- and Spanish-language screening assessments, though it 
is limited by the numbers of schools and students with data in both languages. It offers a 
window into practices and results for a small number of cases, which may prove useful in 
identifying areas for further investigation. One such area may be the relationship between 
language of instruction and screening results, including common development trajectories over 
time for students being taught solely in English versus in a DLBE program.  
Given the small sample sizes observed here, ongoing analyses of screening results in all 
languages may help DESE to identify meaningful patterns and best practices for district 
guidance. Districts, in turn, may benefit from receiving guidance on when to screen in both 
languages, how to interpret divergent results, and when (under what circumstances) other 
sources of evidence may be useful to understand student development instead of or in addition 
to Spanish-language screening assessments. Such guidance could also benefit students with a 
home language other than Spanish for whom home language screening assessments are not yet 
available. 
Discussion and Next Steps 
This report provides additional analysis of early literacy screening data using data that 
represents about half of the K–3 student population in Massachusetts. Despite challenges in 
===PAGE 101===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 97 – 
interpreting results due to differences in definitions of risk used across screening assessments, 
3 years of analysis have consistently shown several patterns.  
First, students identified as at risk tend to stay at risk. This pattern is true both within and 
across years and is even more pronounced for historically marginalized students, including 
Black, Hispanic, and English Learner students; students from low income backgrounds; and 
students receiving special education services. At the other extreme, students who begin a 
school year at or above benchmark also tend to stay there within and across school years. This 
year’s analysis allows us to follow students for 2 years rather than just year to year, and these 
same patterns persist.  
At the same time, there is evidence that being identified as significantly below benchmark (or 
above benchmark) is not a permanent designation. In each of the past 3 years of analysis, data 
show that students who move above the significant risk threshold typically maintain that 
improved performance over time. For example, students who improve by midyear tend to stay 
out of the significant risk category through the end of the year. Additionally, students at earlier 
grade levels are consistently less likely to remain at significant risk than are students in higher 
grade levels. Moving students by midyear seems to matter for screening assessment 
performance at EOY or in the following school years and so does moving students in 
kindergarten and grade 1.  
Analysis also shows the importance of schools to individual student performance. In this year’s 
data and in prior reporting, results show that repeated risk identification is associated with the 
environments in which students learn. This year’s analysis also examines district-level factors 
such as school segregation by race/ethnicity and socioeconomic status. Interestingly, the results 
show that we cannot statistically identify independent effects of these factors over and above 
related student- and school-level characteristics— their impact is likely already embedded at 
these levels. Similarly, analysis first carried out last year and repeated again this year shows 
that students from backgrounds that include membership in multiple historically underserved 
groups are more frequently identified as at risk. Further, analyses of English and Spanish 
screening practices highlight the complex relationships between learners, home languages, and 
languages of instruction and assessment. Data suggest that information in two languages may 
tell different stories about student strengths and progress, though the results of Spanish-
language screening assessments tend to show higher risk and less growth over time— likely due 
to the fact that almost all students who are screened in multiple languages are instructed only 
in English.  
And yet, results from last year and this year do point to some schools who appear to be 
outperforming expectations. Continuing to track these schools over time may offer an 
opportunity to identify successful practices.  
New analysis this year attempts to check for effects of being identified as at significant risk on 
later academic performance— specifically on MCAS. We did not identify any such effects, which 
may be due to the fact that interventions meant to be provided to students at risk are not yet 
===PAGE 102===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (2023/24 Data) 
– 98 – 
having their full intended effect or they are keeping students from falling further behind their 
peers. It may also relate to another consistent finding about the relationship between screening 
assessment performance and MCAS. In each of the past 3 years, data show that students who 
are significantly below benchmark are very unlikely to be successful on MCAS, and even 
students performing at benchmark on many screening assessments will not meet expectations 
on MCAS. Without strong and sustained intervention and core instructional programs aligned 
with challenging standards, changes in grade 3 assessment scores are improbable.  
Results of this and prior analysis are descriptive in nature— they do not “prove” anything in the 
same way that a rigorous study of a particular program or intervention does. They simply 
describe what we see in the data, accounting as best we can for factors such as differences 
between screening assessments and other data limitations.  
Addressing data limitations and screening assessment comparability will strengthen DESE’s 
ability to identify important and recurrent trends in performance and progress, but universal 
screening to identify students at risk is just the beginning.  
===PAGE 103===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 99 – 
References 
Amplify. (n.d.). mCLASS Lectura technical manual. 
https://amplify.com/pdf/uploads/2024/04/mCLASS_Lectura_Technical_Manual_final_draft.pdf 
Biancarosa, G., Kennedy, P. C, Park, S., Otterstedt, J., Gearin, B, Ives, C, & Yoon, H. J. (2018–
2020). 8th Edition of Dynamic Indicators of Basic Early Literacy Skills (DIBELS®): Technical 
manual. University of Oregon. https://dibels.uoregon.edu/sites/default/files/DIBELS8-
TechnicalManual_04152020.pdf 
Bibler, A. J. (2022). Language immersion and student achievement. Education Economics, 30(5), 
451–464. https://doi.org/10.1080/09645292.2021.2001788 
Curriculum Associates. (2019). i-Ready® Assessments technical manual. 
Curriculum Associates. (2025). Universal early literacy screening using i-Ready: Guidance to 
identify students who are significantly below benchmark. 
EarlyBird Education. (2024). EarlyBird Kindergarten Dyslexia and Early Literacy Assessment: 
Technical manual. https://knowledgebase.earlybirdeducation.com/knowledge/earlybird-tech-
manuals 
Faulkner-Bond, M., Spycher, P., Olsen, L., & Gándara, P. (2020). The power and promise of 
California’s multilingual learners. In California Department of Education, Improving education 
for multilingual and English learner students: Research to practice (pp. 27–62). 
https://www.cde.ca.gov/sp/el/er/documents/mleleducation.pdf 
Gray, J. S., Warnock, A. N., Good, R. H., III, & Powell-Smith, K. A. (2021). Acadience Reading K–6 
national norms (Technical Report No. 32). Acadience Learning. www.acadiencelearning.org 
Greenberg Motamedi, J., Singh, M., & Thompson, K. D. (2016). English learner student 
characteristics and time to reclassification: An example from Washington state (REL 2016 128). 
U.S. Department of Education, Institute of Education Sciences, National Center for Education 
Evaluation and Regional Assistance, Regional Educational Laboratory Northwest. 
http://ies.ed.gov/ncee/edlabs  
Illuminate Education. (2021). Psychometric evidence of FastBridge Universal Screening & 
Progress Monitoring System. https://www.illuminateed.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/07/Psychometric-Evidence-of-FastBridge-Universal-Screening-Progress-
Monitoring-System-2021.pdf  
Kieffer, M. J., & Parker, C. E. (2016). Patterns of English learner student reclassification in New 
York City public schools (REL 2017–200). U.S. Department of Education, Institute of Education 
Sciences, National Center for Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance, Regional 
Educational Laboratory Northeast & Islands. http://ies.ed.gov/ncee/edlabs  
===PAGE 104===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 100 – 
Lemke, M., Murphy, D., Soo Ping Chow, A., & Acuña, A. (2024). Intersections: Student 
background and early literacy performance. WestEd. 
https://www.wested.org/resource/intersections-student-background-and-early-literacy-
performance/ 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (2021). Massachusetts 
dyslexia guidelines. https://www.doe.mass.edu/specialeducation/families/links/dyslexia-
guidelines.pdf 
Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education. (2023). Early literacy 
screening guidance. https://www.doe.mass.edu/instruction/screening-guide.pdf 
McCall, L. (2005). The complexity of intersectionality. Signs, 30(3), 1771–1800. 
http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.1086/426800 
Morales, C. (2024). Dual language immersion programs and student achievement in early 
elementary grades. Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, 47(2), 616–623. 
https://doi.org/10.3102/01623737241228829 
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. (2017). Promoting the educational 
success of children and youth learning English: Promising futures. The National Academies 
Press. https://doi.org/10.17226/24677 
National Center for Education Statistics. (2024). English Learners in public schools. Condition of 
Education. U.S. Department of Education, Institute of Education Sciences. Retrieved May 30, 
2024, from https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator/cgf 
Olsen, L. (with Martinez, M., Herrera, C. B., & Skibbins, H.). (2020). Multilingual programs and 
pedagogy: What teachers and administrators need to know and do. In California Department of 
Education, Improving education for multilingual and English students: Research to practice 
(pp. 115–188). https://www.cde.ca.gov/sp/el/er/documents/mleleducation.pdf 
Owens, A. (2018). Income segregation between school districts and inequality in students’ 
achievement. Sociology of Education, 91(1), 1–27. https://www.asanet.org/wp-
content/uploads/attach/journals/jan18soefeature.pdf?ref=postcommon.com 
Palacios, N., Bohlmann, N. L., Bell, B.A., Oh, M. H., & Yue, Y. (2024). Does early elementary dual 
language instruction deliver as promised? AERA Open, 10. 
https://doi.org/10.1177/23328584241264513 
Peng, F., Xue, K., Hall, C., & Newburn, J. (2024). English MAP reading fluency technical report: 
Based on assessments administered during the 2020–2022 school year. NWEA. 
https://www.nwea.org/research/publication/english-map-reading-fluency-technical-report/ 
Reardon, S. F. (2016). School segregation and racial academic achievement gaps. RSF: The 
Russell Sage Foundation Journal of the Social Sciences, 2(5), 34–57. 
https://doi.org/10.7758/RSF.2016.2.5.03 
===PAGE 105===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 101 – 
Reardon, S. F., Owens, A., & Kalogrides, D. (2025). Documentation for segregation estimates, 
Segregation Explorer (Version 1.0) [Data set]. http://edopportunity.org/segregation 
Renaissance Learning. (n.d.). Defining benchmarks in Star Computer Adaptive tests. https://star-
help.renaissance. com/hc/en-us/articles/24424240092827-Defining-Benchmarks-in-Star-
Assessments Renaissance Learning  
Renaissance Learning (2024). FastBridge benchmarks and norms interpretation guide. 
https://fastbridge.illuminateed.com/hc/en-us/articles/1260802348670-FastBridge-
Benchmarks-and-Norms-Interpretation-Guide 
Renaissance Learning (2025a). Star Assessments™ for Early Literacy technical manual. 
https://star-help. renaissance.com/hc/en-us/articles/12483321397019-Star-Assessments-for-
Early-Literacy-Technical-Manual Renaissance Learning 
Renaissance Learning (2025b). Star Assessments™ for Reading technical manual. https://star-
help. renaissance.com/hc/en-us/articles/12542471051803-Star-Assessments-for-Reading-
Technical-Manual 
Slama, R., Molefe, A., Gerdeman, R. D, Herrera, A., Brodziak de los Reyes, I., August, D., & 
Cavazos, L. (2017). Time to proficiency for Hispanic English learner students in Texas (REL 2018–
280). U.S. Department of Education, Institute of Education Sciences, National Center for 
Education Evaluation and Regional Assistance, Regional Educational Laboratory Central. 
http://ies.ed.gov/ncee/edlabs 
Steele, J. L., Slater, R. O., Zamarro, G., Miller, T., Li, J., Burkhauser, S., & Bacon, M. (2017). 
Effects of dual-language immersion programs on student achievement: Evidence from lottery 
data. American Educational Research Journal, 54(1_suppl), 282S-306S. 
https://doi.org/10.3102/0002831216634463 
Thompson, K. D. (2017). English learners’ time to reclassification: An analysis. Educational 
Policy, 31(3), 330–363. https://doi.org/10.1177/0895904815598394 
Umansky, I. M., & Reardon, S. F. (2014). Reclassification patterns among Latino English learner 
students in bilingual, dual immersion, and English immersion classrooms. American Educational 
Research Journal, 51(5), 879–912. https://doi.org/10.3102/0002831214545110 
U.S. Department of Justice, Civil Rights Division, & U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil 
Rights. (2015, January 7). Dear colleague letter: English learner students and limited English 
proficient parents. https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague-el-201501.pdf 
Valentino, R. A., & Reardon, S. F. (2015). Effectiveness of four instructional programs designed 
to serve English learners: Variation by ethnicity and initial English proficiency. Educational 
Evaluation and Policy Analysis, 37(4), 612–637. https://doi.org/10.3102/0162373715573310 
===PAGE 106===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 102 – 
Appendix A. Business Rules and Data 
Processing Specifications 
This report draws on data from multiple sources, including extant student-level data provided 
by Massachusetts Department of Elementary and Secondary Education (DESE) and publicly 
available school- and district-level data obtained from DESE’s school and district profiles 
website and Stanford University’s Segregation Tracking Project. The data includes 
• early literacy universal screening assessment data for K–3 students in districts receiving 
certain state grants (e.g., the Early Grades Literacy grant, the Early Literacy Screening 
Assessment and Professional Development grant, the Growing Literacy Equity Across 
Massachusetts grant, Accelerating Literacy, and the High Quality Instructional Materials 
Implementation grant); 
• the state’s Student Information Management System (SIMS) data;  
• Massachusetts Comprehensive Assessment System (MCAS) data; 
• Assessing Comprehension and Communication in English State-to-State for English 
Language Learners (ACCESS for ELLs) data; and  
• publicly available school- and district-level data pertaining to educator characteristics, 
student performance, student enrollment and demographic characteristics, 
racial/ethnic segregation, and finances/expenditures. 
These data sources were each cleaned separately using R and Stata and were merged into one 
primary longitudinal analytical file that was used for the analysis. In the following sections, we 
describe the data cleaning and merging progress, data issues that arose, and the decisions that 
were made to resolve these issues.  
Cleaning Early Literacy Universal Screening Assessment Data 
Cleaning of the 2023/24 early literacy screening assessment data primarily consisted of 
dropping student identifiers and assessment-specific variables that would not be needed for 
the analyses (e.g., publisher-assigned ID, race/ethnicity, other measures); renaming variables to 
create a standardized format across assessments; creating variables to contain school and 
district codes for the merging process; creating variables containing the composite (and 
subtest) benchmark levels and reading risk flag status (as defined by the publisher); creating a 
time/test period variable, when needed, that describes when the screening assessment was 
administered (i.e., beginning of year [BOY], middle of year [MOY], and end of year [EOY]); and 
selecting one score per student per time period per grade level per assessment. 
===PAGE 107===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 103 – 
The analytic team used publisher-defined cut scores (obtained through the assessment 
technical manuals or communication with the publishers) to create composite and subtest 
benchmark variables and a reading risk flag variable. Although these variables were typically 
available in DESE- or publisher-provided files, for some assessments, schools and districts could 
establish their own local benchmarks and/or could calculate them manually. To ensure as much 
comparability as possible in the data, benchmark levels were recalculated according to the 
technical documentation provided by the assessment publishers. Where this was not possible 
due to missing information or other reasons, we used the school- or district-provided 
benchmark scores. The MAP Reading Fluency Universal Screener flag, the EarlyBird dyslexia risk 
flag, and the aimswebPlus composite benchmark level were not calculated by the analytic team 
because publisher-defined cut scores were not available. The MAP Reading Fluency flag is 
generated by NWEA using a multivariate predictive model, the EarlyBird dyslexia risk flag is 
generated by EarlyBird using subtests determined to be most predictive of dyslexia, and the 
aimswebPlus composite benchmark is generated by comparing the student’s composite score 
with the seasonal cut scores set after the teacher or school selects the spring performance 
target. Additionally, for the 25th percentile or below analyses, we used publisher-provided 
documentation that identifies the score at the 25th percentile if percentile data were not 
included in the assessment file. 
In some instances, differences between the benchmark level provided in the screening 
assessment file and the benchmark level generated based on the publisher-defined cut scores 
were likely due to the administration of an “off grade level” test; this was observed in 
214 observations. In these instances, a note was included in the database and the observations 
were excluded from the analyses because their scores were not generated from the expected 
grade-level assessment.  
The time period corresponding to each score was typically determined by using a variable 
within the file or was indicated in the file name. For cases with a missing time period, the 
assessment administration date provided within the file and the default testing periods 
provided by publishers were used to determine the expected time period. The Istation and Star 
assessments had additional ways to determine the appropriate time period. Because Istation 
Indicators of Progress (ISIP) Early Reading was typically delivered each month during the school 
year, the analytic team used the September scores as the BOY scores, the January scores as the 
MOY scores, and the May scores as the EOY scores. If September scores were missing, October 
scores were used as the BOY scores; if January scores were missing, February scores were used 
as the MOY scores; and if May scores were missing, June scores were used as the EOY scores. 
The Star assessments also include a variable that identifies the period that the student growth 
percentile for that observation covers. This variable was also used to determine the current 
time period of an observation. 
Some students had multiple scores within the same grade level and time period and on the 
same assessment. To select one score per grade level per time period per assessment, the 
analytic team used the following rules: 
===PAGE 108===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 104 – 
• The observation(s) with a composite score was selected if additional observations did 
not have one. 
• Observations with earlier administration dates were selected (because later scores in 
the same time window were potentially scores being used for progress monitoring 
rather than screening). 
• If multiple observations had the same date or the administration dates were not 
available, the lowest score within the time period was selected because the higher 
score was assumed to be a progress monitoring measure after instruction. 
• If the observations had no composite and the assessments were administered on the 
same date (or the date was unavailable), the observation with more subtest data was 
selected.  
The Star, i-Ready, and NWEA assessments included additional metrics that were used to select 
the score for analysis. 
• Star Curriculum-Based Methods files contained a test purpose variable that indicated 
whether the administration purpose was “screening,” “progress monitoring,” or 
“other.” Some scores did not have an associated test purpose. Observations that were 
used for progress monitoring were dropped during the cleaning process. Observations 
with no stated purpose or with an “Other” purpose were kept if that was the only 
observation for the student for that subtest in the specific time period. The remaining 
duplicates were removed using the previously mentioned rules.  
• i-Ready files contained a variable (i.e., Rush Flag) that indicates whether a student may 
have “rushed” through the diagnostic assessment. Students received a red Rush Flag if 
they answered questions in less than 11 seconds on average per item and a yellow 
Rush Flag if they spent between 12 and 15 seconds on average per item. In determining 
which observations to keep, if there were multiple observations per time period, scores 
without rush flags were kept regardless of administration date. The remaining 
duplicates were removed using the previously mentioned rules. 
• The MAP Reading Fluency assessment included four types of tests: (a) Foundational 
Skills, (b) Foundational Skills: Beginner, (c) Adaptive Oral Reading, and (d) Adaptive Oral 
Reading: Passages Only. If students had observations from multiple assessment types, 
the observation for the assessment type most in line with what is typically administered 
to students in that grade level was used. The remaining duplicates were removed using 
the previously mentioned rules. 
Finally, during the screening assessment cleaning process for the 2023/24 data, the composite 
score for 2,909 Acadience Reading observations and 3,867 DIBELS 8th Edition observations 
were generated by the analytic team using the composite score formulas in the technical 
manuals. These composite scores were only generated if the student either had all necessary 
===PAGE 109===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 105 – 
subtest data or met the discontinue rules (i.e., the student struggled significantly and did not 
take increasingly difficult subtests) or the gating rules (i.e., the student was high performing and 
skipped easier subtests [difficulty level determined by the publisher]). These cases typically 
occurred in district-provided files where the district did not calculate or provide the composite 
score. Further, 69 Acadience Reading scores, 455 DIBELS 8th Edition scores, and 182 mCLASS 
Lectura scores were replaced with composite scores generated by the analytic team using the 
composite score formulas in the technical manual. This recalculation was typically done for files 
in which the data appeared to be manually entered and was done primarily for two main 
reasons: First, some of the observations had incorrectly calculated composite scores based on 
the subtest data provided in the file (specifically, missing scores were treated as zeros). Second, 
some of the observations had composite scores even though the student did not complete the 
necessary grade-level subtests and did not meet the discontinue/gating rules. 
Cleaning Student-Level State Education Data 
In addition to the K–3 early literacy screening assessment data, other student-level data from 
the 2020/21, 2021/22, 2022/23, and 2023/24 school years were used for the analysis, including 
October and June SIMS data, MCAS data, and ACCESS for ELLs data. 
The state education data required minimal cleaning. The cleaning process was conducted in 
Stata and generally consisted of renaming variables to meet the standardized format used for 
the early literacy screening files and dropping variables that were unnecessary for the analysis 
or not applicable for K–3 students (e.g., the High School Completer Plan). Additionally, some 
variables were used/manipulated to create indicator variables for the analysis (e.g., DESE-
provided race/ethnicity variables were used to create a separate variable for each racial/ethnic 
group). 
Merging Student-Level Early Literacy Screening Data and State 
Education Data 
Following the cleaning of the student-level screening assessment data and state education 
data, a student-level file was created by merging the two data sources. The following steps 
were taken: 
1. The combined screening assessment file was merged with the June SIMS data where 
possible. The analytic team first attempted to match student screening assessment 
scores with their June SIMS data using the state assigned student identifier (SASID), 
grade level, school code, and district code. Because students may appear multiple times 
within the SIMS data if they transferred to a different school and district within the 
school year, we attempted to connect a student’s screening assessment data with the 
SIMS data that corresponded to the same school and district.  
===PAGE 110===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 106 – 
2. If a match did not occur between the assessment data and June SIMS data using these 
identifiers, we then attempted to match the assessment data, using these same 
identifiers, with the October SIMS data.  
3. If a match did not occur between the assessment data and October SIMS data using 
these identifiers, we then attempted to match the assessment data with their 
appropriate June SIMS observation using the student’s SASID, grade level, and district 
code (i.e., without the school code as a matching variable). The process was repeated 
with the October SIMS data for remaining observations, followed by a merge using 
SASIDs and grade level alone, then a merge using SASIDs and school codes, then a merge 
using SASIDs and district codes, and then a merge based solely on SASIDs. 
4. Some files did not contain the SASID for a student; rather, they only contained the 
student’s locally assigned identifier (LASID), which is unique at the district level. Because 
the identifier is not unique at the state level, all attempted merges used the district code 
as a matching variable.27 
Some screening assessment observations merged with multiple SIMS observations when 
merging on fewer variables than the student identifier, grade level, school code, and district 
code. In these instances, we used the Researcher’s Guide to Massachusetts State Education 
Data28 to determine the appropriate assessment-SIMS match to keep. Typically, we used the 
enrollment status variable, which describes the enrollment status of a student within the school 
(e.g., enrolled students, students who dropped out, students who transferred into the state), 
and the days of membership variable to select the appropriate match. In these instances, 
matches that were higher in the enrollment hierarchy were used; and if two observations had 
the same enrollment status, the observation with the larger number of days of membership 
was selected.  
Because the analysis includes student characteristics, it was important for each observation to 
have the same key demographics, regardless of the SIMS observation that they matched with. 
For the following demographic characteristics, we used the June SIMS data to ensure 
consistency across each observation: gender, race/ethnicity, low income status, English learner 
status, English learner program status, indicator for English learner students attending schools 
in the United States for less than 1 year, Section 504 status, special education status, early 
childhood experience, and native language.  
 
27 Observations with no SASIDs were merged using LASIDs, grade levels, school codes, and 
district codes first, followed by a merge using LASIDs, grade levels, and district codes for 
remaining observations, followed by a merge using LASIDs, school codes, and district codes, 
and finally followed by a merge using LASIDs and district codes. 
28 This resource can be downloaded from Researchers’ Guide to Massachusetts State Education 
Data.  
===PAGE 111===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 107 – 
Out of the 694,858 screening assessment observations used for the analysis for the 2020/21, 
2021/22, 2022/23, and 2023/24 school years, 690,355 (99.4%) matched with a corresponding 
observation in the SIMS data. Of the observations that matched, 688,262 (99.7%) matched with 
an observation in the June SIMS data and 2,093 (0.3%) matched with an observation in the 
October SIMS data. Of the screening assessment observations, 32,247 did not match exactly 
with the SIMS data (i.e., did not match using the grade level, school code, and district code); 
17,457 had a different grade level than their corresponding SIMS observation, 239 had different 
district codes, and 14,832 had different school codes. Almost all grade level differences 
occurred in the 2023–24 school year (99.9%); these differences occurred primarily because 
some screening assessment data were exported by the publisher during the 2024/25 school 
year and thus had the incorrect grade level. Additionally, 93 percent of the school differences 
(13,782 observations) occurred because the screening assessment file did not identify which 
school the student attended. In conducting the analyses, the school and district codes from the 
screening assessment data set were used and the grade levels from the SIMS data set were 
used. Any student with a grade level outside of K–3, according to the SIMS database, was not 
included in the analysis. 
After the screening assessment data were merged with the SIMS collection data, the combined 
file was merged with the MCAS and ACCESS data sets using SASID. The MCAS and ACCESS files 
did not have any duplicate observations; therefore, only the student’s state identifier was used 
to merge the data sets with the combined screening assessment and SIMS file. 
Cleaning and Merging Publicly Available School- and District-
Level Data 
Publicly available school- and district-level data for 2020/21, 2021/22, 2022/23, and 2023/24 
were retrieved from DESE’s school and district profiles website to provide contextual data 
about the sample of the students used in analysis. School-level racial/ethnic segregation data 
were retrieved from the Educational Opportunity Project at Stanford University. Overall, the 
data pertain to the following four main categories of information: (a) educator characteristics, 
(b) student performance, (c) student enrollment and demographics, and (d) financial 
information. These data were merged with the student-level longitudinal file using the school 
and district codes from the screening assessment data set. For the observations missing the 
school code from the screening assessment data set, the SIMS school code was used to merge 
with the publicly available school-level data. 
This finalized file with student-level screening assessment data, state education data, and 
publicly available school- and district-level data was provided to DESE. Data are organized 
because a single longitudinal data set with one observation per student, per grade, per time 
period, per screening assessment, per year. Some students have multiple screening assessment 
scores per time period as they took multiple early literacy screening assessments during the 
school year.  
===PAGE 112===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 108 –
Appendix B. Comparability Analysis Details 
Screening Assessment Benchmark Details 
Table B1. Descriptions of Significantly Below Benchmark Score Levels and Availability 
of National Percentile Scores 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to 
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
Acadience 
Reading 
At EOY, a score that indicates performance significantly 
below benchmark (“well below benchmark” in Acadience 
terms) means a student is estimated to have a 10 percent o 
20 percent chance of being above the 40th percentile on 
the Group Reading Assessment and Diagnostic Evaluation 
(GRADE) assessment. MOY risk cut points were established 
such that students were predicted to have a 10 percent to 
20 percent chance of achieving the EOY Acadience Reading 
composite score needed to be above the 40th percentile on 
the GRADE assessment. The BOY score was set such that 
students had the same odds of achieving the MOY 
Acadience Reading composite score. These cut points were 
established based on a study in 13 schools in five school 
districts in 2009/10 with 3,816 participants total 
(1,306 who took the GRADE). 
Yes 
===PAGE 113===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 109 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to  
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
DIBELS 8th 
Edition 
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, a score that indicates performance 
significantly below benchmark (“well below benchmark” or 
“at risk” in DIBELS and mCLASS terms) identifies most 
students who would be expected to score at or below the 
20th percentile on an EOY assessment. For kindergarten, 
the EOY assessment used in analysis was DIBELS Next, and 
it was the Iowa Assessments (total reading score) for 
grades 1–3. The Iowa Assessments test is described as  
“a published, group-administered, multiple-choice, norm-
referenced measure of reading achievement,” and 
technical documentation notes, “Whereas DIBELS Next 
includes letter naming and phonemic awareness 
component skills in the composite score, the Iowa total 
reading score does not assess these same component skills, 
making it a more distal criterion measure.” Based on 
studies carried out between 2017 and 2019 with about 
7,000 K–3 students, the well below benchmark cut score 
will accurately identify 80 percent of students who would 
perform at the 20th percentile or below at EOY. In other 
words, being well below benchmark identifies students 
whose reading skills are still likely to be less well developed 
than those of most of their peers by EOY if they do not 
receive intensive intervention. 
Yes 
MAP Reading 
Fluency 
MAP Reading Fluency does not provide a composite score 
based on its subtests. However, it provides a binary 
“Universal Screener outcome flag” that suggests possible 
risk of reading difficulty. MAP Reading Fluency benchmark 
assessments may include different test content for 
different students depending on their grade and skill level, 
and the Universal Screener outcome flag is set differently 
depending on which subtests students take. For students 
who take a foundational skills test form (which can be 
specifically assigned or will be automatically assigned based 
on performance), the Universal Screener outcome is set 
based on results of predictive modeling that identifies 
students as at risk if their performance would likely be 
below the 10th percentile on MAP Growth in reading at 
EOY in that grade level.  
No 
===PAGE 114===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 110 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to  
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
mCLASS See the description for DIBELS 8th Edition. (mCLASS 
assessments use DIBELS 8th Edition tasks, and reported 
performance levels are the same.) 
Yes 
mCLASS 
Lectura 
The cut scores were calculated using receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC) curve analyses, which describe the 
extent to which mCLASS Lectura scores accurately 
predicted performance above or below the 20th percentile 
on external Spanish language criterion measures 
(i.e., Woodcock-Muñoz Análisis de Palabras for 
kindergarten and Star Early Literacy Spanish for  
grades 1–3). This is based on data collected in 2021/2022 
from approximately 1,300 students over about 18 schools 
in 10 districts; it varies by grade level. 
No 
EarlyBird  
(grade K) 
EarlyBird provides different metrics at each time period to 
identify students at risk of reading difficulties. At BOY, 
MOY, and EOY, EarlyBird provides a dyslexia risk flag that is 
used in analysis to identify students at significant risk. 
According to the publisher, dyslexia risk is defined as 
“performing at or below the 16th percentile on the 
Kaufman Test of Educational Achievement, 3rd Edition 
(KTEA-3) Phonological Processing subtest. Any child flagged 
for dyslexia risk is at high risk for low phonological 
processing skills and therefore subsequent low reading 
proficiency and needs intensive instruction targeted to the 
student’s skill weaknesses.” The dyslexia risk flag was set 
based on analysis of data collected in 2019/20 from 
219 students in eight states. The original sample included 
19 schools; it is unclear how many schools were 
represented in the final sample. 
No 
===PAGE 115===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 111 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to  
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
FastBridge 
aReading  
(grades 2 and 
3) 
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, the FastBridge aReading score that 
indicates performance significantly below benchmark 
(“high risk” in FastBridge terms) means that students are 
performing below the 15th national percentile. The 
15th percentile was selected through studies that used 
predictive analysis (ROC analysis) to assess the classification 
accuracy of those cut points relative to performing below 
the 20th percentile on the Gates-MacGinitie Reading Tests, 
4th Edition (GMRT-4th; MacGinitie, MacGinitie, Maria, & 
Dreyer, 2000) or the measures of academic progress (MAP) 
in 2010/11 in two schools (777 students).   
Yes 
FastBridge 
earlyReading  
(grades K and 
1) 
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, the FastBridge earlyReading score 
that indicates performance significantly below benchmark 
(“high risk” in FastBridge terms) means that students are 
performing below the 15th national percentile. The 
15th percentile was selected through studies that used 
predictive analysis (ROC analysis) to assess the classification 
accuracy of those cut points relative to performing below 
the 15th percentile on the GRADE assessment aimed to 
maximize specificity and sensitivity. Data were collected 
from two school districts (numbers of students and schools 
not provided). 
Yes 
i-Ready 
Diagnostic 
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, scores that indicate performance 
significantly below benchmark (“at risk” on i-Ready 
Diagnostic) describe the grade level associated with a 
student’s performance in the context of college and career 
readiness standards. That is, “significantly below 
benchmark” generally means that students are performing 
one or more grade levels below their assigned grade. For 
example, at BOY, grade 3 students classified as “at risk” 
based on i-Ready Diagnostic are performing at or below 
grade 1 standards; at MOY, grade 3 students classified as at 
risk are performing at grade 2 standards or below; and at 
EOY, grade 3 students classified as at risk are performing at 
or below a level that indicates partially meeting grade 
3 standards. 
Yes 
===PAGE 116===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 112 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Description of levels corresponding to  
significantly below benchmark 
National 
percentiles 
available 
Star Early 
Literacy 
(English and 
Spanish; 
grades K and 
1)  
At BOY, MOY, and EOY, a score that indicates performance 
significantly below benchmark (“intervention” or “urgent 
intervention” in Star terms) means that students are 
performing below the 25th national percentile based on a 
2014/15 study including more than 500,000 unique 
students who took Star assessments. At least 75 percent of 
students would be expected to perform better than 
students scoring at the intervention or urgent intervention 
level. 
Yes 
Star Reading 
(English and 
Spanish; 
grades 2 and 
3) 
See the description of Star Early Literacy benchmarks in the 
previous row. 
Yes 
Source: WestEd’s compilation based on technical documentation and/or communication with 
publishers. (See the references for a list of technical reports and related documentation.) 
Screening Assessment Agreement Rates 
Table B2. Percentage of Times Screening Assessment Results Match for Same Students 
At BOY, MOY, EOY 
Early literacy screening 
assessments 
BOY  
(N, % agree) 
MOY  
(N, % agree) 
EOY  
(N, % agree) 
DIBELS 8th Edition and  
i-Ready 
997 
74% 
1,110 
73% 
1,100 
62% 
Star Reading and 
mCLASS 
995 
84% 
1,103 
85% 
1,115 
85% 
EarlyBird and mCLASS 355 
47% 
624 
63% 
492 
73% 
i-Ready and mCLASS 185 
84% 
176 
81% 
189 
76% 
EarlyBird and i-Ready 182 
81% 
120 
77% 
310 
72% 
===PAGE 117===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 113 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessments 
BOY  
(N, % agree) 
MOY  
(N, % agree) 
EOY  
(N, % agree) 
Star Early Literacy and 
mCLASS 
178 
68% 
172 
76% 
165 
81% 
Note. Includes students with any number of scores. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Comparability Testing 
As part of the analysis for this year’s report, WestEd tested several different approaches to 
developing comparable metrics for reporting reading risk.  
We tested three approaches:  
1. Equipercentile linking of each screening assessment to MCAS 
2. Equipercentile linking of each screening assessment to DIBELS/mCLASS 
3. Equipercentile linking of each screening assessment to DIBELS/mCLASS, then pooling 
data and calculating the 25th percentile scores using only Massachusetts student data 
We briefly describe each approach here. The descriptions are followed by information to help 
evaluate the quality of the results. We also provide tables that show the numbers of students 
who would be identified as at significant risk at each grade level and time period using these 
three approaches, plus the existing publisher-provided benchmarks and the 25th national 
percentile for comparison purposes. A detailed description of the equipercentile linking 
procedure and additional tables showing grade 3 screening benchmarks linked to the MCAS 
scale follow. 
1. Equipercentile Linking of Each Screening Assessment to MCAS 
In this approach, we take students’ screening assessment scores where we have complete data 
for each time point (beginning, middle, and end of year) and grade level and link to 2024 MCAS 
tests. Using a same-persons (common students) design, we link to the 3rd grade 2024 MCAS 
ELA assessment:  
• Grade 3 screening assessment data are from the 2023/24 school year. 
• Grade 2 screening assessment data are from the 2022/23 school year. 
• Grade 1 screening assessment data are from the 2021/22 school year.  
We only used data from students with both scores. Due to data limitations, sample sizes 
decreased with greater time intervals between screening assessment administration and spring 
2024 MCAS. Note also that we linked Star Reading at grades 2 and 3 and Star Early Literacy at 
grades K and 1 because these are the generally recommended grade levels for students to take 
===PAGE 118===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 114 – 
these assessments. Though there are students who take these assessments at other grade 
levels, those students represent different populations than the typical students at those grades.  
After linking, for purposes of illustrating an approach for the state to select a benchmark, we 
chose an MCAS score of 470 (the cut between Does Not Meet and Partially Meets) as a sample 
cut score indicating risk of reading difficulty.  
2. Equipercentile Linking of Each Screening Assessment to 
DIBELS/mCLASS 
In this approach, two screening assessment scores were linked within a grade level and time of 
year. For this design, common students were not available across different screening 
assessments. Also, the characteristics of the population of students taking different screening 
assessments may vary. To account for these differences, we used coarsened exact matching, a 
statistical technique to group similar students based on demographic characteristics and their 
school MCAS performance. We used matched sample data from the 2023/24 school year where 
we had at least 250 observations at the beginning, middle, and end of year for the linking study. 
The following screening assessments met the sample size requirement to link to 
DIBELS/mCLASS: 
• Acadience Reading 
• FastBridge aReading and earlyReading 
• Star Early Literacy 
• Star Reading 
• i-Ready 
After linking, we used linked scores to illustrate two different approaches for the state to select 
a benchmark. First, we simply applied the DIBELS/mCLASS Below and Well Below Benchmarks 
to all other screening assessments. This method shows how the state could capitalize on an 
existing assessment’s risk benchmarks while still using other screening assessments. The second 
approach uses linked scores to compute a Massachusetts-specific percentile score (in this case, 
the 25th percentile) to show how the state could create a normative benchmark using 
Massachusetts student screening data from multiple assessments. 
3. Equipercentile Linking of Each Screening Assessment to 
DIBELS/mCLASS, Then Pooling Data and Calculating the 25th Percentile 
Scores Using Only Massachusetts Student Data 
For this analysis, we followed a similar procedure to that described earlier, except we then 
combined data by grade and time period and found the 25th percentile value using the linked 
data and used this as an example benchmark. 
===PAGE 119===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 115 – 
Evaluation Metrics 
Where possible we evaluated the following metrics to understand the quality of the linking: 
• linked scores’ correlation with the observed scores 
• standard errors of the linking estimates 
• similarity of the students across linked and observed scores 
In the first section (Tables B3–B29), we provide MCAS linking results. Tables B30–B53 show 
results for DIBELS/mCLASS linking.  
Not surprisingly, overall the MCAS linking is strongest for assessments with larger samples and 
at later grade levels. Correlations between observed and linked MCAS scores range from about 
0.55 to 0.84 depending on the screening assessment and time of year (Tables B3–B5). Tables 
B6–B8 show descriptive statistics comparing linked scores and observed scores. These show 
that on average the linked and observed scores are similar, but there is significant variation 
when comparing individual scores. Tables B9–B11 show similar statistics by MCAS performance 
level, showing more accurate links in the middle of the scale (for students in the Partially 
Meeting Expectations and Meeting Expectations levels). Tables B12–B14 provide estimates of 
the linking error at the specific MCAS cut score of 470, which separates the Not Meeting 
Expectations from Partially Meeting Expectations. Average error tends to be 1–3 MCAS scale 
score points, but it is larger for Acadience. Tables B15–B29 show classification accuracy using 
our illustrative cut point of 470. Applying this as a sample risk indicator to screening assessment 
data and then comparing it to observed MCAS scores, we see that between 71 and 94 percent 
of students would be accurately classified into Does Not Meet or above Does Not Meet 
categories. There is some variation across assessments and grades, but the accuracy would be 
considered in the “good” range. Tables B18–B29 show the classification data by student 
subgroup to assess how well they apply for students with different background characteristics. 
We included results for which we had at least 100 students in each group.  
This disaggregated analysis of the proportion of students with the same Not Meeting 
Expectations (MCAS) scores shows that this linking approach (MCAS) generally maintained good 
agreement rates across student populations. However, agreement rates were higher for 
students without IEPs and for students not from low income backgrounds compared with those 
with IEPs or who were classified as being from low income backgrounds. These variations may 
reflect differences in score distributions rather than linking quality. Gender differences were 
minimal across all screening assessments, with agreement rates varying by less than 
2 percentage points between female and male students. While some differences were 
observed across racial/ethnic groups, most screening assessments maintained acceptable 
agreement levels (0.70 or higher) across demographic categories. These findings suggest that 
the linking methods provide reasonably consistent results across different student groups, 
though educators may benefit from considering these patterns when interpreting linked scores, 
particularly for students with IEPs. 
===PAGE 120===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 116 – 
Tables B30–B53 provide similar information for the DIBELS/mCLASS linking. Table B31 shows 
that the average error was about 1–3 DIBELS/mCLASS scale score points at the Below 
Benchmark cut-score location. Tables B34–B53 show how often classifications using 
DIBELS/mCLASS benchmarks agreed with classifications using each assessment’s original 
benchmarks (i.e., whether or not students were classified as at risk using each). We focused our 
analysis on those identified in the lowest benchmarks (on DIBELS and mCLASS, the performance 
level Well Below Benchmark). Tables B34–B37 show overall classification accuracy, and Tables 
B38–B53 break these down by student subgroups. Like the MCAS analysis, we reported findings 
when sample sizes were at least 100. In most instances, classification accuracy between the 
observed and linked benchmarks was greater than 70 percent and in many instances was above 
80 percent. The differences by demographic characteristics were smaller compared with the 
MCAS analysis. For example, the rates for those with an IEP and those without an IEP were 
similar (see Tables B42–45). This disaggregated analysis provides evidence that the linking 
approach was relatively accurate overall and for each subgroup. 
MCAS Linking Results 
Table B3. Correlations of Linked MCAS Scores to Observed MCAS Scores by Grade, 
Time of Year, and Screening Assessment, Including Sample Size, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading NSD NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.553 (1,350) 0.604 (1,423) 0.626 (1,467) 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy 0.611 (1,453) 0.657 (1,838) 0.656 (1,861) 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 0.641 (666) 0.679 (669) 0.698 (409) 
mCLASS 0.609 (546) 0.641 (568) 0.632 (575) 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 121===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 117 – 
Table B4. Correlations of Linked MCAS Scores to Observed MCAS Scores by Grade, 
Time of Year, and Screening Assessment, Including Sample Size, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 0.640 (443) 0.687 (401) 0.705 (403) 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.670 (2,352) 0.674 (2,550) 0.670 (2,605) 
FastBridge aReading NSD NSD NSD 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.683 (3,513) 0.750 (3,760) 0.761 (3,931) 
i-Ready 0.763 (2,199) 0.789 (2,223) 0.800 (2,224) 
mCLASS 0.690 (2,169) 0.685 (2,182) 0.695 (2,570) 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B5. Correlations of Linked MCAS Scores to Observed MCAS Scores by Grade, 
Time of Year, and Screening Assessment, Including Sample Size, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
BOY MOY EOY 
Acadience Reading 0.697 (465) 0.700 (467) 0.714 (466) 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.657 (5,724) 0.662 (5,982) 0.645 (5,612) 
FastBridge aReading 0.778 (573) 0.802 (557) 0.824 (583) 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.798 (5,158) 0.824 (5,143) 0.832 (5,207) 
i-Ready 0.809 (3,847) 0.833 (3,873) 0.841 (3,858) 
mCLASS 0.703 (11,208) 0.694 (11,190) 0.682 (10,981) 
===PAGE 122===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 118 – 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B6. Descriptive Statistics of Difference in MCAS Scale Score Estimates by 
Screening Assessment and Grade Level (in MCAS Scale Score Points), Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg SD Min Max 
DIBELS 8th Edition NSD 19.77 –105 81 
Star Early Literacy –0.55 18.49 –69 93 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready –0.21 16.31 –65 55 
mCLASS –0.28 18.95 –68 66 
Acadience Reading NSD NSD NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B7. Descriptive Statistics of Difference in MCAS Scale Score Estimates by 
Screening Assessment and Grade Level (in MCAS Scale Score Points), Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg SD Min Max 
DIBELS 8th Edition –0.18 18.08 –99 71 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading –0.79 15.86 –83 74 
i-Ready –0.28 15.16 –76 58 
mCLASS –0.53 17.78 –72 69 
Acadience Reading –0.18 16.51 –57 47 
===PAGE 123===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 119 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg SD Min Max 
FastBridge aReading NSD NSD NSD NSD 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B8. Descriptive Statistics of Difference in MCAS Scale Score Estimates by 
Screening Assessment and Grade Level (in MCAS Scale Score Points), Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg SD Min Max 
DIBELS 8th Edition –0.22 18.54 –93 87 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading –0.35 13.45 –69 83 
i-Ready –0.22 12.97 –66 63 
mCLASS –0.19 18.05 –79 96 
Acadience Reading –0.47 15.78 –59 49 
FastBridge aReading –0.08 13.54 –53 53 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B9. Descriptive Statistics of the Difference in Linked and Observed MCAS Scale 
Scores by Screening Assessment, MCAS Benchmark, Grade Level, and Performance 
Levels, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Acadience Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
===PAGE 124===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 120 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Acadience Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition Not meeting 
expectations 
14.71 19.18 –27 81 
DIBELS 8th Edition Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.24 17.37 –52 68 
DIBELS 8th Edition Meeting 
expectations 
–5.49 17.88 –75 54 
DIBELS 8th Edition Exceeding 
expectations 
–19.03 20.14 –105 24 
FastBridge aReading Not meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Partially meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Exceeding 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Not meeting 
expectations 
9.30 16.44 –27 93 
Star Early Literacy Partially meeting 
expectations 
–1.42 17.08 –54 64 
Star Early Literacy Meeting 
expectations 
–7.65 18.03 –69 47 
Star Early Literacy Exceeding 
expectations 
–19.84 17.41 –62 16 
===PAGE 125===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 121 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Star Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready Not meeting 
expectations 
13.21 15.87 –23 55 
i-Ready Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.74 15.40 –45 46 
i-Ready Meeting 
expectations 
–4.34 14.59 –59 31 
i-Ready Exceeding 
expectations 
–12.94 17.23 –65 23 
mCLASS Not meeting 
expectations 
14.81 17.28 –26 66 
mCLASS Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.45 16.51 –54 54 
mCLASS Meeting 
expectations 
–4.08 18.22 –68 40 
mCLASS Exceeding 
expectations 
–18.52 15.98 –59 24 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 126===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 122 – 
Table B10. Descriptive Statistics of the Difference in Linked and Observed MCAS Scale 
Scores by Screening Assessment, MCAS Benchmark, Grade Level, and Performance 
Levels, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Acadience Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
14.33 17.01 –25 47 
Acadience Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
3.80 14.49 –48 40 
Acadience Reading Meeting 
expectations 
–0.62 15.28 –37 35 
Acadience Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
–15.12 16.37 –57 19 
DIBELS 8th Edition Not meeting 
expectations 
10.69 15.91 –25 64 
DIBELS 8th Edition Partially meeting 
expectations 
3.41 16.83 –51 71 
DIBELS 8th Edition Meeting 
expectations 
–4.24 16.90 –77 59 
DIBELS 8th Edition Exceeding 
expectations 
–17.38 16.06 –99 24 
FastBridge aReading Not meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Partially meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Meeting 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Exceeding 
expectations 
NSD NSD NSD NSD 
Star Early Literacy Not meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
===PAGE 127===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 123 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Star Early Literacy Partially meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Exceeding 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
7.55 15.64 –27 74 
Star Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.67 15.07 –57 61 
Star Reading Meeting 
expectations 
–4.03 15.20 –81 47 
Star Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
–13.05 14.26 –83 24 
i-Ready Not meeting 
expectations 
6.75 15.10 –26 58 
i-Ready Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.57 14.53 –52 52 
i-Ready Meeting 
expectations 
–3.95 13.78 –63 39 
i-Ready Exceeding 
expectations 
–11.50 16.69 –76 26 
mCLASS Not meeting 
expectations 
9.67 15.94 –27 69 
mCLASS Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.03 16.21 –57 69 
mCLASS Meeting 
expectations 
–4.23 16.86 –70 49 
mCLASS Exceeding 
expectations 
–19.00 15.99 –72 21 
===PAGE 128===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 124 – 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B11. Descriptive Statistics of the Difference in Linked and Observed MCAS Scale 
Scores by Screening Assessment, MCAS Benchmark, Grade Level, and Performance 
Levels, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
Acadience Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
13.79 15.65 –22 43 
Acadience Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.96 13.91 –44 41 
Acadience Reading Meeting 
expectations 
–0.54 14.54 –41 49 
Acadience Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
–14.60 16.14 –59 23 
DIBELS 8th Edition Not meeting 
expectations 
10.74 17.73 –26 87 
DIBELS 8th Edition Partially meeting 
expectations 
3.13 17.15 –54 66 
DIBELS 8th Edition Meeting 
expectations 
–5.38 16.79 –78 57 
DIBELS 8th Edition Exceeding 
expectations 
–18.97 16.11 –93 25 
FastBridge aReading Not meeting 
expectations 
9.12 14.13 –28 53 
FastBridge aReading Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.58 13.89 –45 33 
FastBridge aReading Meeting 
expectations 
–1.97 11.24 –48 28 
===PAGE 129===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 125 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
FastBridge aReading Exceeding 
expectations 
–9.31 14.08 –53 22 
Star Early Literacy Not meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Partially meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Meeting 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Exceeding 
expectations 
N/A N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading Not meeting 
expectations 
4.90 13.48 –27 83 
Star Reading Partially meeting 
expectations 
0.39 12.69 –57 54 
Star Reading Meeting 
expectations 
–2.89 12.88 –69 46 
Star Reading Exceeding 
expectations 
–12.13 13.20 –53 28 
i-Ready Not meeting 
expectations 
5.98 13.69 –27 63 
i-Ready Partially meeting 
expectations 
–0.17 12.12 –49 50 
i-Ready Meeting 
expectations 
–2.67 11.95 –66 48 
i-Ready Exceeding 
expectations 
–11.44 13.32 –51 28 
mCLASS Not meeting 
expectations 
8.71 16.41 –28 96 
mCLASS Partially meeting 
expectations 
2.04 17.32 –55 83 
===PAGE 130===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 126 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
MCAS performance 
level Avg SD Min Max 
mCLASS Meeting 
expectations 
–5.20 16.41 –79 54 
mCLASS Exceeding 
expectations 
–19.25 14.92 –69 29 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B12. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of MCAS Scale 
Scores, At the Partially Meeting Expectations MCAS Performance Level Cut Score by 
Screening Assessment and Grade, Aggregated Across Time of Year, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading NSD NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition 1.173 0.703 1.694 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 3.464 3.053 4.100 
mCLASS 2.281 0.959 3.938 
Star Early Literacy 4.163 3.445 5.045 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data 
===PAGE 131===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 127 – 
Table B13. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of MCAS Scale 
Scores, At the Partially Meeting Expectations MCAS Performance Level Cut Score by 
Screening Assessment and Grade, Aggregated Across Time of Year, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 12.262 7.881 20.171 
DIBELS 8th Edition 1.502 1.084 1.856 
FastBridge aReading NSD NSD NSD 
i-Ready 2.992 2.618 3.189 
mCLASS 1.508 0.981 1.980 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 3.207 2.504 3.801 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data 
Table B14. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of MCAS Scale 
Scores, At the Partially Meeting Expectations MCAS Performance Level Cut Score by 
Screening Assessment and Grade, Aggregated Across Time of Year, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 28.284 24.520 30.971 
DIBELS 8th Edition 1.118 0.976 1.288 
FastBridge aReading 4.066 3.050 5.059 
i-Ready 2.492 2.360 2.664 
mCLASS 0.880 0.650 1.085 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
===PAGE 132===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 128 – 
Early literacy 
screening 
assessment 
Avg Min Max 
Star Reading 3.528 2.916 4.167 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data 
Table B15. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores, Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.844 4,240 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A 
i-Ready 0.866 1,744 
mCLASS 0.864 1,689 
Star Early Literacy 0.765 5,152 
Star Reading N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B16. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.935 1,247 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.883 7,507 
===PAGE 133===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 129 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
FastBridge aReading NSD NSD 
i-Ready 0.868 6,646 
mCLASS 0.872 6,921 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.872 11,204 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B17. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores, Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.941 1,398 
DIBELS 8th Edition 0.870 17,318 
FastBridge aReading 0.883 1,713 
i-Ready 0.876 11,578 
mCLASS 0.851 33,379 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.880 15,508 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 134===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 130 – 
Table B18. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and IEP 
Status, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Yes NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.870 3,623 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.689 617 
FastBridge aReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Yes N/A N/A 
i-Ready No 0.896 1,449 
i-Ready Yes 0.715 295 
mCLASS No 0.907 1,402 
mCLASS Yes 0.655 287 
Star Early Literacy No 0.787 4,249 
Star Early Literacy Yes 0.659 903 
Star Reading No N/A N/A 
Star Reading Yes N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 135===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 131 – 
Table B19. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and IEP 
Status, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.967 993 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.811 254 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.918 6,171 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.719 1,328 
FastBridge aReading No NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Yes NSD NSD 
i-Ready No 0.904 5,285 
i-Ready Yes 0.731 1,353 
mCLASS No 0.905 5,730 
mCLASS Yes 0.710 1,191 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.897 9,381 
Star Reading Yes 0.738 1,823 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 136===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 132 – 
Table B20. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and IEP 
Status, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment IEP Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.979 1,097 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.804 301 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.925 13,390 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.682 3,921 
FastBridge aReading No 0.941 1,350 
FastBridge aReading Yes 0.669 363 
i-Ready No 0.924 8,785 
i-Ready Yes 0.722 2,783 
mCLASS No 0.900 26,023 
mCLASS Yes 0.674 7,353 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.913 12,071 
Star Reading Yes 0.762 3,434 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 137===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 133 – 
Table B21. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and Low 
Income Status, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading Yes NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.924 2,237 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.754 2,003 
FastBridge aReading No N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Yes N/A N/A 
i-Ready No 0.886 1,240 
i-Ready Yes 0.815 504 
mCLASS No 0.928 880 
mCLASS Yes 0.795 809 
Star Early Literacy No 0.875 1,519 
Star Early Literacy Yes 0.719 3,633 
Star Reading No N/A N/A 
Star Reading Yes N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 138===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 134 – 
Table B22. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and Low 
Income Status, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.947 1,080 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.856 167 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.934 4,582 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.804 2,917 
FastBridge aReading No NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Yes NSD NSD 
i-Ready No 0.911 3,929 
i-Ready Yes 0.806 2,709 
mCLASS No 0.919 3,922 
mCLASS Yes 0.809 2,999 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.917 5,890 
Star Reading Yes 0.822 5,314 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 139===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 135 – 
Table B23. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and Low 
Income Status, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment LI Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading No 0.957 1,220 
Acadience Reading Yes 0.831 178 
DIBELS 8th Edition No 0.908 11,020 
DIBELS 8th Edition Yes 0.804 6,291 
FastBridge aReading No 0.920 1,013 
FastBridge aReading Yes 0.830 700 
i-Ready No 0.911 6,764 
i-Ready Yes 0.825 4,804 
mCLASS No 0.909 16,686 
mCLASS Yes 0.792 16,690 
Star Early Literacy No N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Yes N/A N/A 
Star Reading No 0.921 7,904 
Star Reading Yes 0.837 7,601 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 140===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 136 – 
Table B24. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Race/Ethnicity, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading White NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition Asian 0.910 288 
DIBELS 8th Edition Black 0.729 166 
DIBELS 8th Edition Hispanic 0.757 1,350 
DIBELS 8th Edition Other 0.851 181 
DIBELS 8th Edition White 0.895 2255 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading Other N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading White N/A N/A 
i-Ready Asian NSD NSD 
i-Ready Black 0.791 129 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.876 121 
i-Ready Other NSD NSD 
i-Ready White 0.868 1,376 
mCLASS Asian 0.900 642 
mCLASS Black 0.743 105 
mCLASS Hispanic 0.834 151 
mCLASS Other NSD NSD 
mCLASS White 0.876 709 
Star Early Literacy Asian 0.823 237 
Star Early Literacy Black 0.778 595 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic 0.707 2,228 
===PAGE 141===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 137 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy Other 0.771 236 
Star Early Literacy White 0.822 1,856 
Star Reading Asian N/A N/A 
Star Reading Black N/A N/A 
Star Reading Hispanic N/A N/A 
Star Reading Other N/A N/A 
Star Reading White N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B25. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Race/Ethnicity, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading White 0.938 1,121 
DIBELS 8th Edition Asian 0.884 481 
DIBELS 8th Edition Black 0.809 341 
DIBELS 8th Edition Hispanic 0.804 1,675 
DIBELS 8th Edition Other 0.917 349 
DIBELS 8th Edition White 0.914 4,661 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading Other NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading White NSD NSD 
===PAGE 142===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 138 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
i-Ready Asian 0.919 248 
i-Ready Black 0.800 330 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.804 1,838 
i-Ready Other 0.920 311 
i-Ready White 0.897 3,919 
mCLASS Asian 0.939 1,290 
mCLASS Black 0.816 629 
mCLASS Hispanic 0.796 1,519 
mCLASS Other 0.843 383 
mCLASS White 0.896 3,100 
Star Early Literacy Asian N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Black N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Other N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy White N/A N/A 
Star Reading Asian 0.938 291 
Star Reading Black 0.832 762 
Star Reading Hispanic 0.816 2,935 
Star Reading Other 0.865 569 
Star Reading White 0.898 6,647 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 143===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 139 – 
Table B26. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Race/Ethnicity, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading White 0.939 1,257 
DIBELS 8th Edition Asian 0.902 961 
DIBELS 8th Edition Black 0.805 734 
DIBELS 8th Edition Hispanic 0.807 4,060 
DIBELS 8th Edition Other 0.880 752 
DIBELS 8th Edition White 0.895 10,811 
FastBridge aReading Hispanic 0.876 177 
FastBridge aReading Other 0.896 134 
FastBridge aReading White 0.886 1,238 
i-Ready Asian 0.922 334 
i-Ready Black 0.868 736 
i-Ready Hispanic 0.808 3,151 
i-Ready Other 0.921 483 
i-Ready White 0.902 6,874 
mCLASS Asian 0.933 2,931 
mCLASS Black 0.807 5,089 
mCLASS Hispanic 0.789 9,520 
mCLASS Other 0.850 1,689 
mCLASS White 0.891 14,150 
Star Early Literacy Asian N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Black N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy Hispanic N/A N/A 
===PAGE 144===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 140 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment 
Race/ 
ethnicity Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy Other N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy White N/A N/A 
Star Reading Asian 0.910 466 
Star Reading Black 0.854 1,093 
Star Reading Hispanic 0.827 4,886 
Star Reading Other 0.862 744 
Star Reading White 0.914 8,319 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B27. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Gender, Grade 1 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE NSD NSD 
Acadience Reading MA NSD NSD 
DIBELS 8th Edition FE 0.862 2,124 
DIBELS 8th Edition MA 0.827 2,113 
FastBridge aReading FE N/A N/A 
FastBridge aReading MA N/A N/A 
i-Ready FE 0.884 865 
i-Ready MA 0.848 879 
mCLASS FE 0.854 793 
===PAGE 145===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 141 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
mCLASS MA 0.874 896 
Star Early Literacy FE 0.778 2,550 
Star Early Literacy MA 0.752 2,602 
Star Reading FE N/A N/A 
Star Reading MA N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B28. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Gender, Grade 2 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE 0.930 631 
Acadience Reading MA 0.940 616 
DIBELS 8th Edition FE 0.899 3,729 
DIBELS 8th Edition MA 0.868 3,766 
FastBridge aReading FE NSD NSD 
FastBridge aReading MA NSD NSD 
i-Ready FE 0.891 3,197 
i-Ready MA 0.848 3,437 
mCLASS FE 0.873 3,332 
mCLASS MA 0.870 3,589 
Star Early Literacy FE N/A N/A 
===PAGE 146===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 142 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Star Early Literacy MA N/A N/A 
Star Reading FE 0.880 5,652 
Star Reading MA 0.863 5,550 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
NSD means that there was not sufficient data to report statistics. Source: Early literacy 
screening assessment data. 
Table B29. Proportion of Students With the Same Not Meeting Expectations MCAS 
Benchmark Between the Linked and Observed MCAS Scores by Grade Level and 
Gender, Grade 3 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading FE 0.944 697 
Acadience Reading MA 0.939 701 
DIBELS 8th Edition FE 0.886 8,524 
DIBELS 8th Edition MA 0.855 8,778 
FastBridge aReading FE 0.904 874 
FastBridge aReading MA 0.862 839 
i-Ready FE 0.887 5,543 
i-Ready MA 0.865 6,019 
mCLASS FE 0.858 16,302 
mCLASS MA 0.843 17,056 
Star Early Literacy FE N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy MA N/A N/A 
Star Reading FE 0.892 7,727 
===PAGE 147===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 143 – 
Early literacy 
screening assessment Gender Accuracy N 
Star Reading MA 0.868 7,775 
Note. Statistics for Star Early Literacy were calculated only for grade 1 students, and statistics 
for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only for grades 2 and 3 students. 
Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
DIBELS/mCLASS Linking Results 
Table B30. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of 
DIBELS/mCLASS Scale Scores for the Below Benchmark Cut Scores by Screening 
Assessment and Grade for a Matched Sample, Aggregated Across Time of Year,  
Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 1.284 0.825 1.881 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 1.539 1.267 2.022 
i-Ready 0.772 0.486 1.080 
Star Early Literacy 0.606 0.368 0.861 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
===PAGE 148===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 144 – 
Table B31. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of DIBELS/mCLASS 
Scale Scores for the Below Benchmark Cut Scores by Screening Assessment and  
Grade for a Matched Sample, Aggregated Across Time of Year, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 2.034 1.299 2.702 
FastBridge aReading 2.643 1.910 3.350 
FastBridge earlyReading N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 0.975 0.724 1.212 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.908 0.698 1.099 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B32. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of 
DIBELS/mCLASS Scale Scores for the Below Benchmark Cut Scores by Screening 
Assessment and Grade for a Matched Sample, Aggregated Across Time of Year,  
Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 2.752 2.341 3.161 
FastBridge aReading 2.633 2.186 2.913 
FastBridge earlyReading N/A N/A N/A 
i-Ready 1.070 0.925 1.202 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.972 0.843 1.096 
===PAGE 149===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 145 – 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B33. Average, Minimum, and Maximum Linking Error, in Terms of 
DIBELS/mCLASS Scale Scores for the Below Benchmark Cut Scores by Screening 
Assessment and Grade for a Matched Sample, Aggregated Across Time of Year,  
Grade K 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Avg Min Max 
Acadience Reading 2.112 1.649 2.504 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 2.662 2.083 3.232 
i-Ready 1.503 1.202 1.991 
Star Early Literacy 1.035 0.786 1.350 
Star Reading N/A N/A N/A 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B34. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared with Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores, Grade 1 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.934 2,640 
FastBridge aReading N/A N/A 
FastBridge earlyReading 0.951 2,708 
Star Early Literacy 0.899 14,708 
Star Reading N/A N/A 
===PAGE 150===
 Early Literacy Performance in Massachusetts:  
Results of Ongoing Analysis of Literacy Screening Assessments (Year 3) 
– 146 – 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
i-Ready 0.703 11,455 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B35. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared with Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores, Grade 2 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.969 2,015 
FastBridge aReading 0.950 2,114 
FastBridge earlyReading N/A N/A 
Star Early Literacy N/A N/A 
Star Reading 0.959 12,749 
i-Ready 0.808 13,120 
Note. Statistics for FastBridge earlyReading and Star Early Literacy were calculated only for 
grade 1 students, and statistics for FastBridge aReading and Star Reading were calculated only 
for grades 2 and 3 students. Source: Early literacy screening assessment data. 
Table B36. Proportion of Students Classified At the Well Below Benchmark Using 
Linked Screening Assessment Scores Compared with Observed Screening Assessment 
Scores, Grade 3 
Early literacy screening 
assessment Accuracy N 
Acadience Reading 0.929 1,420 
FastBridge aReading 0.922 1,939 
