===PAGE 1===
April 8, 2010 
 
PERSONNEL COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES 
 
At 6:00 p.m. the Chair called the meeting to order. Present were Chair Robert Rand, 
William Murray, and Deborah Christen. Absent were Mary Gould and Dawn Cacciotti. 
The April 1, 2010 scheduled meeting was cancelled. 
 
On-going Business: 
 
1. Public Comment: None. 
2. Personnel Actions to Review and Approve: None. 
      3.   Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications: A new hire was received from the Fire 
Department – Janet Flahive – as a “per diem public safety dispatcher”. Chair will return 
for clarification from Town Manager. 
4. Review of Previous Meeting Minutes: The minutes were not available to review.  
 
Current Business: 
 
1. Next Changes for the Salary Admin. Bylaw – Salar y Schedule:  General 
discussion and review of workshop meeting with Board of Selectmen and Town 
Manager on April 6, 2010 where Chair shared proposed New Salary Schedule for 
changes to Salary Administration Plan. 
2. Job Description Format, Project: Dawn was not at  meeting, passed over. 
3. Discussion on and Review of Progress on LPC Init iatives: Chair shared updated 
version of Calendar of Events; William will post as preliminary draft on the 
website.   
4. Next Meeting Agenda: a meeting prior to the Annu al Town Meeting will be held 
on April 29, 2010 with the following agenda: 1. Public Comment, 1. S.A.P. Bylaw 
– Review Article.  Next Regularly Scheduled Meeting  will be on May 6, 2010 with 
the following Agenda:  Standard On-going (Public Comment, Personnel 
Actions/Approvals, Personnel Change/Hiring Notifications, and Review of 
Previous Minutes) and Current Business to include Job Description Format, 
result of Annual Town Meeting article, Calendar of Events, and Next Meeting. 
 
The next scheduled meeting will be on May 6, 2010 at 6:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg Public 
Library. The meeting adjourned (Deborah made motion, William seconded) at 6:35 p.m.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Deborah Christen, Secretary 