===PAGE 1===
 /FY2015/Personnel Committee/Minutes – 10-26-15.docx    
 
 
          
Town of Lunenburg  
Personnel Committee: 
Cheryl Valera, Chairman 
Scott Chase, Vice-Chairman 
Lin Vickery, Secretary 
Deb Christen, Member 
Nancy Forest, Member 
 
             
Minutes December 3, 2015  
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148  
Meeting Posted:   Yes 
Location: 
  Lunenburg Library, Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg, MA 
Present: Cheryl Valera, Lin Vickery, Scott Chase, Nancy Forest, Deb Christen, Sherri 
Freeman, and Jamie Toale 
Absent:   
 
1.  Cheryl Valera, Committee Chair, called meeting to order at 6:33 p.m.  Reviewed minutes of 
October 26 th  meeting. Minutes were approved. Lin will send to Town Clerk for publication. 
2.  Old Business 
3.  Public Comment 
a.  Sherri Freeman was in attendance and mentioned that the Town website needs updating 
and if the Personnel Committee members could be listed.  She also mentioned asked if 
there was an employee handbook.  Nancy said there was no formal handbook, that 
policies were approved by Town Counsel and Kerry would be the one presenting the 
policies to the BOS.  However, all new hires are given standard policies when they start, 
i.e. IT, ADA, and Sexual Harassment.  Scott asked if there was any Sexual Harassment 
training and who handles complaints.  Nancy stated that training is due and Kerry 
handles complaints.  Scott motioned that we table further discussion on this topic to a 
date when Kerry, Town Manager, could attend a Personnel Committee meeting for a 
more comprehensive discussion.  All agreed.  
4.  Agenda Items: 
a.  Advice Package – We discussed that we would review and make recommendations to the 
salary grid, discuss with Kerry, present to FinComm and BOS before it is presented to 
annual Town meeting in May.  When the SAP was presented at the Special Town Meeting 
on November 16 th , the salary grid was attached even though the Personnel Committee 
did not intend for it to be attached.  Cheryl stated at that meeting that the Personnel 
Committee did not change the salary grid.  Nancy mentioned that there were 13 rates 
that were incorrect and we needed to prepare an administrative order to make the 
corrections.  We need to change back to the previous version of May 1, 2010.  The 
administrative order was prepared at our meeting and Deb agreed to file the 
administrative order with the Town Clerk. 
b.  Discussed reviewing the talent bank forms and recruiting process for people who are 
interested in joining town committees and in particular the Personnel Committee. In 
addition, we spoke briefly about performance review forms.  Nancy stated that the 
payroll system she is using has the capability of customizing performance review 
templates. The DPW came up with their own performance review form.  Scott 
volunteered to take this action item and will present at the next Personnel Committee 
Meeting January 7, 2016. 
c.  Discussed the Director of DPW position’s salary grade.  Nancy mentioned that this 
position had a contract but because of Mass General Law it did not qualify as a position 
that required a contract and the position was moved to the SAP.  Nancy felt this positon’s 
grade needs to be reviewed. She presented compensation data she gathered for similar 
position in surround towns. This led to a discussion on a compensation analysis.  Nancy 
spoke with department managers and has written job descriptions for each job and 
presented them to Kerry for her review.  Scott motioned to table this to a Personnel 

===PAGE 2===
 /FY2015/Personnel Committee/Minutes – 10-26-15.docx    
 
Committee where Kerry can attend in order to have a more comprehensive discussion. 
d.  Personnel Action Forms 
i.  There were no forms to sign 
5.  Lin requested that the 2016 Personnel Committee Meeting dates be set.  The 2016 meeting dates 
are as follows: 
a.  Jan 7, Feb 4, Mar 3, Apr 7, May 5, Jun 2, Jul 7, Aug 4, Sept 8, Oct 6, Nov 3, and Dec 1.  
b.  Sherri Freeman made a suggestion that we book our meetings in advance with the 
Library so we could secure the room needed for the meetings. 
6.  January 2016 Personnel Committee meeting agenda items are: 
a.  Discuss policies, employee handbook and sexual harassment training with Kerry 
b.  Scott will present findings regarding his review of talent bank forms and explore performance 
review form templates 
c.  Discuss DPW Director grade in comparison with market analysis data, compensation analysis 
and job descriptions (Nancy prepared) with Kerry 
d.  Personnel Action Forms 
7.  Adjournment:  Deb motioned to adjourn the meeting; Lin seconded the motion, and the 
committee voted 5-0 to adjourn at 7:37 p.m.  
 
Minutes respectfully submitted on December 4, 2015, by Lin Vickery 