===PAGE 1===
 /FY2016/Personnel Committee/Minutes – 3-4-16.docx   1 of 2 
 
 
          
Town of Lunenburg  
Personnel Committee: 
Scott Chase, Vice-Chairman 
Lin Vickery, Secretary 
Deb Christen, Member 
Nancy Forest, Member 
              
Minutes March 3, 2016 
17 Main Street, P.O. Box 135 
Lunenburg, MA 01462-0135 
978.582.4139 
FAX 978.582.4148  
Meeting Posted:   Yes 
Location: 
  Lunenburg Library, Massachusetts Ave., Lunenburg, MA 
Present: Lin Vickery, Scott Chase, Nancy Forest, Deb Christen, Kerry LaFleur and Jamie 
Toale  
Absent:   
 
 
Scott Chase, Committee Vice-Chair, called meeting to order at 6:35 p.m.   
 
Ongoing Business 
1.  Personnel Action Forms 
a.  Personnel Committee Members signed off on 2 Personnel Action Forms 
2.  Public Comment 
a.  No public comment 
3.  Review/Approval of Previous Meeting Minutes 
a.  Minutes of December 3, 2015 minutes were reviewed and approved.  Lin will send them 
to Lynne Klaft and Kathy Herrick to publish.  
4.  Discussion of SAP grid (COLA) 
a.  Mr. Rodriquenz stated that articles for the May Annual Town Meeting will closes on March 
25, 2016.  He and other town employees covered by the SAP (20-22 town employees are 
impacted), were looking for a cost of living adjustment of 2% for next three consecutive 
years (fiscal years 2017 through 2019), and were looking for the Personnel Committee’s 
support for such an article.  Mr. Rodriquenz, stated that town employees covered by the 
SAP have not seen an increase in 5 years.   
 
Scott asked Kerry if the Town could afford this and Kerry stated that there was money 
set aside in her budget.  Kerry stated that typically they do yearly increases and amounts 
vary based on contacts.   
 
At the November Town Meeting it was suggested that the salary schedule needed to be 
addressed at the Annual Town Meeting (May 2016).  After the discussion, Deb Christen 
made a motion to present an article for a COLA 2% increase for town employees on the 
SAP.  The motion was seconded and all approved.  Elaine Peterson, will prepare the 
article and send to Lin for her signature. An administrative order is being presented at 
the Annual Town Meeting for approval. 
 
The Personnel Committee also needs to look at the SAP steps in the salary schedule and 
the employee job descriptions.  The town of Shirley did a compensation and classification 
study and we have a copy of that study, which will be reviewed.  The town of Shirley 
also lists salary information on their website.  Any changes to the SAP steps in the salary 
schedule needs, Town Meeting approval.  In order to review the job descriptions the 
Personnel Committee will schedule a special meeting on Saturday, April 2 
nd  from 9:30 – 
12:30 at the Town Hall.   
 
 

===PAGE 2===
 /FY2016/Personnel Committee/Minutes – 3-4-16.docx   2 of 2 
 
 
Current Business 
1.  Discussion of policies, employee handbook and sexual harassment training 
a.  Scott asked if the Personnel Committee was the body that employees come to with 
concerns, complaints and administering the SAP.  Kerry stated that she and the 
Personnel Committee were responsible for the administration of the SAP.  Recently a 
Library employee did not who she needed to speak with regarding her job title 
change.  Kerry stated that the Library has their own job titles and this can be 
confusing to employees.  The Library employee’s salary was not impacted by her job 
title change.  Library personnel issues are handled by the Library Board of Trustees 
and not the Personnel Committee.   
 
Scott asked if the town employees have attended any Sexual Harassment Training.  
Suggested the lawyer may be able to provide the training.  Kerry suggested that 
webinars are a great way to get employees trained and MIIA the town’s insurance 
carrier may be able to provide this training. 
 
There is a draft Employee handbook and the Personnel Committee will discuss this at 
the May committee meeting.  BOS approval is needed for the handbook and any 
training. 
2.  Review of Talent Bank forms and Performance Evaluation Templates.  Personnel Committee 
decided to postpone this topic until after we accomplish the SAP salary schedule steps, job 
descriptions, review of the handbook and training. 
3.  Discuss DPW Director grade in comparison with market analysis.  This will be discussed in 
our April 2 
nd  meeting. 
 
Other Business 
1.  No other business 
 
Lin motioned to adjourn, Deb seconded, and all were in favor.  Meeting adjourned at 7:57 p.m. 
 
 
Minutes respectfully submitted on March 13, 2016, by Lin Vickery 