===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  October 24, 2019 meeting, Town Hall - meeting Room 
Attendees: 
Scott Chase (Chair), Sue Andrews, Michael Fiorentino, Erik Arnold 
Also Present: 
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits Cordinator/Risk Manager 
Meeting began at 5:30pm with all attendee’s present.   
Old Business 
No Minutes available from previous meeting. 
New Business 
No Personnel Action Forms requiring review. 
Additional Review of Counsel on Aging Directors position description.  
Nancy Forest requested that the group reconsider a previous decision to approve the COA role 
at  SAP Level 14.  She felt that the process to assess appropriate leveling was done more on the 
person in the role rather than the scope of the role itself.  She provided an outline of the factors 
that generally are utilized to assess level placement, and her belief that the COA role should not 
have been upgraded to Level 14.  The group examined the back notes on the initial change and 
then agreed that a more formal process for reexamination of grade levels should have been 
undertaken.  We also determined that jobs had not been leveled, using any specific process tool 
for many years.  After this reexamination several options were made to address this 
inconsistancy.  As the group had previously approved this change, and the change was about to 
be presented formally at the November Town Meeting, the committee felt they needed to 
address the situation formally. 
Motion by S. Andrews:   The committee will meet, prior to the Town Meeting, to determine any 
possible change to our initial recommendation, so that the submission at the Town Meeting is 
accurate. 
Second:  M. Fiorentino  Vote:  All in Favor 
Treasurer/Collector Position Description Review 
This review, sheduled for this meeting, will be postponed given the acknowledgement during 
the previous discussions that the committee needed to utilize a more formal assessment tool. 
Motion by S. Chase:  Postpone review of Treasuer/Collector Position Description until the 
committee has established a formal assessment process. 
Second:  E.Arnold  Vote:  All in Favor 
===PAGE 2===
Motion by S. Chase:  Adjourn the meeting at 6:15pm 
Second:  E. Arnold  Vote:  All in Favor 
 
 
 