===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes:  March 23, 2021 – Zoom Meeting 
 
 
Attendees: 
 
Eric Arnold, Dave MacDonald, Joanna Bilotta, Susan Andrews 
 
Missing Member:  
 
Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present:   
 
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director 
 
Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager, Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits/Risk Manager, 
Myleen Mallari, Treasurer/Tax Collector 
 
Meeting began at 5:04 pm with all attendees present, Eric Arnold Committee Chair presiding 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
 
Minutes of the March 8, 2021 meeting reviewed 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept and approve the minutes as presented  
Second: D. MacDonald 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
Old Business 
 
SAP Longevity Amendment  
 
E. Arnold opened the meeting by informing the Committee that he attended the Select Board 
meeting on Tuesday, March 16, 2021 for the submission of the Personnel Committees Town 
Meeting Article. The Select Board suggested that the longevity amendment be put on hold until the 
Fall Town Meeting. The language of the amendment was “confusing”. The Article was written so 
that department heads would receive the amounts that mirror the Police and Fire Union amounts 
and any position that is not a department head position would receive longevity amounts mirroring 
the Clerical Union amounts. The question was asked what qualifies as a department head. There 
are positions that are management positions, but not necessarily department heads. 
 
E. Arnold suggested modifying the Article, rather than using the department head method to assign 
longevity amounts, go by grade level. For example, all employees in XX grade level and up will 
===PAGE 2===
receive the Police and Fire longevity rates, those below that grade level will receive the Clerical 
longevity rates. Employees hired under the current longevity language of the SAP will remain 
grandfathered for longevity. S. Andrews pointed out that the Personnel Committee may modify the 
SAP grid by reducing the number of pay grades and if the number of pay grades were reduced, this 
would affect the longevity rates if we were to use a grade level based longevity system. E. Arnold 
agreed that this process would take precedence. J. Belliveau also indicated that was a good point 
and supported the Select Boards request for the Committee to hold off until the Fall Town Meeting 
and continuing working on it, and that this meeting is to grant authority to a Personnel Committee 
member or herself to ask the Select Board to remove the longevity amendment of the Article.  
 
Motion by D. MacDonald to grant J. Belliveau the authority to request that the Select Board 
remove the longevity amendment from the Town Meeting Article. 
 
Second: J. Bilotta 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to adjourn the meeting at 5:18pm 
Second:  S. Andrews 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 