===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes: June 3, 2021 – Zoom Meeting 
 
 
Attendees: 
Eric Arnold, Dave MacDonald, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune, Susan Andrews 
 
Also Present:   
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director 
Robert Oliva, DPW Director 
 
Meeting began at 5:04 pm with all attendees present, Eric Arnold Committee Chair presiding 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the March 23, 2021 meeting reviewed 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept and approve the minutes as presented  
Second: D. MacDonald 
Roll Call Vote:  D. Fortune abstained as she had not been present at that meeting, all other 
Members voted in favor of acceptance. 
 
Old Business 
Personnel Action Forms 
The approval of the PAF for the Call Firefighter had previously been sent to committee members 
and approved electronically.  The Network Administrator PAF would be sent later this week for 
electronic approval by committee members. It will represent a hiring rate above step one but in 
better alignment with candidate’s current pay as this is an internal transfer from the school. 
 
Seasonal Cemetery Labor – Position Description 
This is a new role to the SAP and specific to the DPW. The role will most likely be filled by recent 
high school graduates. There is an age requirement due to the need to run power equipment. This 
will also be seasonal, and in the past has been covered by interns or DPW workers during summer 
months. Two summer hires have been approved at the recent town meeting. Discussions were 
about what grade this role would be, and the committee reviewed comparisons to current DPW 
grades. There are no other similar roles. The Committee based on the recommendations of Rob 
Oliva the DPW Director and Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to approve job description of Seasonal Cemetery Labor at SAP Grade 5, with 
one minor description adjustment to add “preferred H.S. diploma or equivalent”, then approve it 
being submitted at next Town Meeting for final approval. 
 
Second: S. Andrews 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to adjourn the meeting at 5:30pm 
Second:  D. Fortune 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 