===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes:  February 16, 2021 – Zoom Meeting 
 
Attendees:   
Joanna Bilotta, Susan Andrews, Eric Arnold, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present: 
Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Sue 
Doherty, COA Director, Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits Coordinator, Casey Burlingame, 
Building Commissioner, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager 
 
Meeting began at 5:02pm with all attendees present, E. Arnold Committee Chair presiding 
 
Public Comment: 
Some members of the committee referenced the previous meetings discussions regarding the role 
the Personnel Committee and their concerns about the nature of the committees support to SAP 
employees.  Several issues were voted on at that meeting that did not support the active 
engagement with employees in several areas such as the grievance process. The group reviewed 
several of these items, and an open discussion ultimately lead to referencing the actual votes that 
took place at that meeting, which confirmed the committee’s decision on each. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the January 31, 2022 meeting reviewed 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept and approve the minutes as presented 
Second:  S. Andrews 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business: 
 
Group continued to review and assess the recommendations for changes to the Salary 
Administration Plan by-law.  Section 17 Paid Vacation section included a new condition to request 
summer vacation plans by May 1, to better facilitate planning.  Various discussions questioned the 
need to add this as year end closing was very busy and there didn’t seem to be long term issue with 
vacation planning.  It had been added to some of the contracts in other groups, the need to add it to 
this group did not seem needed.   
 
Motion by W. Bertrand to keep current language and not add the May 1 condition. 
Second:  E. Arnold 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Continued review of this section then covered the next paragraphs reference to employment 
termination.  The changes recommended the elimination of several sentences that just explained 
how time was calculated and group felt their removal was appropriate for clarity. The use of the 
term unused vacation was also discussed and the group felt a better way to express that was 
accrued vacation. 
 
Motion by E. Arnold to accept the recommended elimination as proposed, but change the words 
unused vacation to accrued vacation. 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The next paragraph outlined the approval process of vacation, with a recommendation that the 
reference to special conditions that should be met for approval of summer vacation be deleted.  
The group also felt the language in the initial paragraph was confusing, so recommended a few 
additional changes.  They felt the final paragraph’s recommendations were acceptable. 
 
Motion by E. Arnold to accept the recommended changes in both paragraphs as well as amend the 
initial sentence of the first paragraph as follows:  “Vacation shall be approved by the Department 
Head/designee for such time or times as best serve the public interest.”  
Second:  S. Andrews 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The group then started to cover recommendations made in Section 18, Paid Holidays.   The group 
had a lengthy discussion on the impact of the towns Friday closings and how it impacted holidays 
that fell on a weekend.  There was considerable dialogue that the policy did not seem appropriate 
as it was the town’s decision to close on Fridays, covering some of the lost hours on Tuesday and 
Thursday early evening hours.  This resulted in employees not being scheduled to work on Fridays, 
so a Saturday holiday would be lost.  As the group was unable to continue its zoom access past 
6:30pm due to another meeting scheduled to use the technology, they decided that the discussion 
on this issue would be continued at the next meeting. 
 
Next Meeting: 
 
Wednesday, March 2, 2021 Zoom Meeting 5:00pm 
 
Motion by W. Bertrand to adjourn meeting at 6:34pm 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 