===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes:  March 28, 2022 – Zoom Meeting 5:00pm 
 
Attendees:   
Joanna Bilotta, Susan Andrews, Eric Arnold, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present: 
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits/Risk 
Manager, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager,  Sue Doherty,  COA Director 
 
E. Arnold opened the Meeting at 5:10pm with all members in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There was no public comment from the committee or the public 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the March 21, 2022 meeting were reviewed. Two minor administrative errors were 
noted. 
 
Motion by W. Bertrand to accept and approve the minutes of the March 21, 2022 meeting, 
amending the administrative errors noted. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
 
New Business: 
New Hire Form –   Sue Doherty presented a request to hire a new COA van driver at a higher step 
in Grade 4.  It has been difficult to recruit for this role and a current employee has graciously 
agreed to stay till this replacement is brought on.  The candidate has previous experience as a 
school bus driver, a good driving record and her recommendation is to bring the candidate in as a 
Grade 4 STEP 3 $15.26ph.  This is a part time role and the step increase will be equal to the other 
driver shortly. 
 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the Director of COA and supported by the 
HR Director and hire this van driver at Grade 4 step 3. 
Second J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
Review of SAP revisions 
The committee did a final review of the revisions of the SAP bylaws.  There were some minor 
administrative adjustments needed in sections 10 and 11.  In Section 17 the group reexamined 
paragraph E which, had, in the original document, a reference for the ability of each employee to 
be able to take a summer vacation.  That paragraph had been changed to eliminate the reference to 
===PAGE 2===
this provision.  The group discussed this again this evening and decided that the reference had 
value and provided clarity so should remain as it was noted in the original version.   
Motion by E. Arnold to return paragraph E in Section 17 Paid Vacations, back to its original status, 
supporting that employees should be allowed a summer vacation. 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
There was also a discussion on Section 21 Family and Medical Leave.  Legal counsel advised that 
this was not required to be noted in the SAP by laws as it was a mandated program, and the Town 
was required to provide all employees a copy of the FMLA Policy. As this policy might change 
overtime the Select Board is responsible for adopting the policy.  The group had taken this advice 
and deleted the section in our amendments.  The group thought that it might be better to just note 
that a copy of the FMLA was available on the Towns website. 
Motion by S. Andrews that we just note in Section 21 FMLA, that a copy of the FMLA Policy is 
available on the Towns website. 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
This completed the group’s review of all the changes proposed and approved for the SAP by laws. 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept the completed SAP by law amendments as noted, and submit the 
document for final approval at the upcoming Town Meeting. 
Second W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Public Comment 
The committee members and the public expressed thanks for the effort the committee made in 
updating this document. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to adjourn meeting at 6:21pm 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
 
 
 