===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes:  March 21, 2022 – Zoom Meeting 5:00pm 
 
Attendees:   
Joanna Bilotta, Susan Andrews, Eric Arnold, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present: 
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits/Risk 
Manager, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager, Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Thomas 
Gammel, Police Chief; Jeff Thibodeau, Police Lt. 
 
E. Arnold opened the Meeting at 5:08pm with all members in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There was no public comment from the committee or the public 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the March 16, 2022 meeting were reviewed. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept and approve the minutes of the March 16, 2022 meeting as presented  
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
 
New Business: 
New Position 
Although out of order, Police Chief Gammel spoke about the need to change how traffic details are 
managed.  New regulations mandate that even civilian traffic support must complete all the 
requirements of a police officer.  Given that, he developed a new job description for a Civilian 
Traffic Detail role.  Although driven by the Police departments CBA, it is not a union position so 
must be part of the SAP.  Because the salary is governed somewhat by the CBA and not the Grade 
Levels of the SAP, the committee explored how to accommodate this unique issue. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept the recommendation of the HR Director and accept the job 
description as presented and to add it to the SAP with a notation that the pay rate be determined by 
the Police CBA.  To be submitted to the Town Meeting for final approval. 
Second E. Arnold 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
New Hire 
Although out of order, the group reviewed a New Hire Form that J. Belliveau submitted for a new 
hire as a Board Clerk/Secretary that will support the Parks Commission. These roles have been 
difficult to fill and candidates with experience need to be brought in at a step higher in the salary 
===PAGE 2===
grade.  She recommended that this candidates experience supported their being place in Grade 6 
step 6.   
 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director to hire this candidate  
In Grade 6 Step 2. 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
Proposed Salary Grid  
E. Arnold had sent the committee various options for changes to the SAP salary grid.  All agreed 
that the minimum wage changes that the state had incorporated should also apply to municipalities 
like Lunenburg, even though that was not a compliance requirement by the state. 
That rate is currently $14.25ph and will go up again next year to $15.00.  He built that into each of 
his examples.  The committee examined each and how they impacted the Towns budget over the 
three year period we are designing the new grids for.  Many options for grades and steps were 
reviewed.  Ultimately the group identified that changing the number of grades and or steps would 
require much more examination given our limited time frame to present to the Town Meeting.  All 
agreed that this work needed to be done, but not at this time.  We also determined that we would 
only submit one years SAP salary grid for the Town Meeting.  That would allow the committee to 
work threw the updating of the Grades this year and submitting additional changes and updated 
salary grids to next years Town Meeting. 
 
Motion by E. Arnold to accept the V2 FY23 salary grid as submitted, and complete the cost review 
so it would be available to send with the FY23 SAP Salary Grid to the Finance Committee for 
review.  It would then be submitted for review at the Town Meeting. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Update on SAP revisions 
As the committee has completed all the revisions deemed required for the SAP by laws, J. 
Belliveau agreed to prepare the edited version for one final review by the committee.  She would 
send out one final document and asked that the committee’s review with any edits be complete by 
the beginning of Thursday, March 24, 2022, so she can finalize the document in preparation for the 
Town Meeting. 
 
Public Comment 
There was no additional public comment  
 
Next Meeting: 
The group agreed to meet again Monday March 28, 2022 for a virtual meeting at 5pm 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to adjourn meeting at 6:52pm 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 