===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
 
Minutes:  March 16, 2021 – Zoom Meeting 
 
Attendees:   
Joanna Bilotta, Susan Andrews, Eric Arnold, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
 
Also Present: 
Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Nancy Forest, Payroll & Benefits/Risk 
Manager, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager, Pauline Roy, COA Outreach Coordinator 
 
Meeting began at 7:14 pm with all attendees present, E. Arnold Committee Chair presiding, 
This meeting will not be recorded as we are utilizing the library Zoom Account which does not 
have the cloud recording feature. 
 
Public Comment: 
The minutes from the March 9, 2022 meeting were not posted, but are being displayed in this 
meeting for review.  Public comment questioned if the corrected version of the SAP was available.  
J. Belliveau was able to display those areas that were covered at the last meeting. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the March 9, 2022 meeting, which were displayed for the group, were reviewed. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept and approve the minutes of the March 9, 2022 meeting as presented,  
Second:  E. Arnold 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
 
New Business: 
Although out of order, the group reviewed a New Hire Form that J. Belliveau submitted for a new 
hire as a Board Clerk/Secretary that will support the Economic Development, and the Storm Water 
Committees.  These roles have been difficult to fill and candidates with experience need to be 
brought in at a step higher in the salary grade.  She recommended that this candidates experience 
supported their being place in Grade 6 step 2.   
 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director to hire this candidate  
In Grade 6 Step 2. 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Ongoing Business 
SAP by Law Review 
J. Belliveau placed the updated SAP sections that the group worked on previously so the group 
could review the changes they voted on at the last meeting.  Although there were questions on 
several sections, most were clarified with more discussion and all found to have been updated as 
agreed upon.   
 
As the group had identified previously, there was an open question regarding a section that was 
totally removed from the SAP by laws, based upon the Legal Counsel’s recommendations.  That 
was Section 27 Discipline, and our guidance was that it was fully covered in the Towns Charter so 
did not need to be in the SAP. 
J. Bilotta reviewed the charter to confirm that this was accurate, and found that the section on 
discipline in the Town Charter was more general information and did not include the specific detail 
that had been presented in Section 27 of the SAP by laws.  The group felt that this detail was 
essential to fully understanding this information. 
 
Motion by E. Arnold to reinstate the entire Section 27 Discipline, into the SAP by laws, as it was 
previously represented, with one change, that the word Probation in Paragraph B be removed, 
leaving the words “waiting period”. 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Now that we have completed the update on the SAP by laws, J. Belliveau will provide the group 
with the final amended version for a full and final review, prior to presenting to the Town Meeting. 
 
Town Warrant   
Articles for Personnel Committee 
J. Belliveau presented a proposed draft of the items that would be needed to be presented at the 
Town Meeting in April.  The first paragraph covered several new positions our group had 
previously approved be presented at the next Town Meeting.  The second paragraph covered the 
approval of the replacement Salary Schedule for FY23, FY24 and FY25. 
 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept the proposed language submitted for the first two warrant items from 
the Personnel Committee that outline new positions, and the new Salary Schedule for the next 
three fiscal periods. 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
J. Belliveau proposed draft of the third warrant item covered the update Section 70 of the Code of 
Lunenburg, which outlines the SAP by laws.   It stated several sections that changed, noted as 
70.17, 70.21 and 70.28.  Section 70 in its entirety covers the SAP by laws, so it was unclear why 
these specific sub-sections were mentioned in the warrant.  There were many more subsections that 
had been amended.   
 
 
===PAGE 3===
Motion by J. Bilotta to amend the third paragraph of the recommended warrant article to remove 
the reference to the various sub-sections. 
Second:  F. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Proposed Salary Grid  
The group began a review of what were options to changes to the current SAP salary grid.  All 
agreed that the minimum wage changes that the state had incorporated should also apply to 
municipalities like Lunenburg, even though that was not a compliance requirement by the state. 
That rate is currently $14.25ph and will go up again next year to $15.00.  That change would be 
quite dramatic to Grade 1 through Grade 3, and by extension the next few grades.  The group 
acknowledged that trying to expand the same increase calculation across every Grade was not 
appropriate, as the upper grades were more inline with market conditions and did not need to be 
expanded in the same manner.  Several options were discussed and the impact the cost of any 
change reviewed.  We determined that some additional calculations were needed to see various 
options and the cost of those options needed to be fully examined.  All agreed that the town’s 
budget implications had to be considered.  E. Arnold agreed to continue to examine and map out 
options that might be considered, share those options with the group so that they might be fully 
explored at the next meeting.  J. Belliveau and N. Forest agreed to assist him with additional 
financial information that would allow of full budget assessment.  Although the group agreed that 
having 20 grades seemed to be excessive, they also agreed that given the limited time available 
before the Town Meeting, that the work to examine the number of grades would be postponed to 
later this year.  
 
Public Comment 
There was no additional public comment  
 
Next Meeting: 
The group agreed to meet again Monday March 21, 2022 for a virtual meeting at 5pm 
 
Motion by W. Bertrand to adjourn meeting at 9:23pm 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 