===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  April 12, 2023    
5:00pm Hybrid – Town Hall/Zoom 
 
In Person Attendees:   
Susan Andrew, Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand,  
Via Phone:  Joanna Bilotta  
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and  
Benefits Risk Manager, Pamela Roy COA, Outreach Coordinator  
 
Wendy Bertrand opened the Meeting at 5:07pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the March 22, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by D. Fortune to accept and approve the minutes of the March 22, 2023 meeting. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
Minutes of the March 27, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept and approve the minutes of the March 27, 2023 meeting 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
 
H.R. Consultant update was given by J. Belliveau as the consultant was not available.  The consultant had 
submitted a follow-up to the last series of questions that the committee posed to her.  J.Belliveau read 
through each question and the consultant’s response.  The committee has some clarifying questions but 
essentially came to understand that any final adjustment to the work was more our own committee adapting 
any unique set of conditions that might be unique to a role in Lunenburg.  The consultant created job 
descriptions and placement in grades based upon standard comparable municipal roles in other towns.  Our 
work now would be to determine if any Lunenburg roles should be reexamined to determine if the nature of 
the work was uniquely different from the standard role that the consultant outlined in the job description. 
There was a general discussion of the option to rename the grades to simplify any misconceptions as we 
consider moving from 20 grade levels to 16 levels.   Perhaps changing to an alphabetic grid might be an 
option to help employees identify with a new grade scheme. 
J. Belliveau noted that she had initially understood that the HR Consultant would be utilizing a more 
standard leveling process to identify what grade a job fell into.  She explained having used other job 
ranking tools that graded responsibilities with a point system so comparisons became more standardized.  
She would research that option more and report back on availability of using such a tool. 
The group also attempted to understand how the SAP changes might be aligned with similar roles in the 
other town employee groups.  Generally the only comparisons might be made to the clerical roles that were 
part of each group.  Both J. Belliveau and N. O’Rourke believed there was little difference in these roles 
across the employee groups.  Additional discussion regarding the updating of the job descriptions in drop 
box and how better to utilize the tool as we proceed.  The group agreed to create a spreadsheet for the 
committee, in dropbox, with all the jobs, their old grade levels, their new grade levels and utilize that grid to 
examine for any disparities as we move forward.  The committee members would be able to make notations 
as they identify items that may need further research. 
 
J. Belliveau noted that the proposed FY24 SAP salary grid had been prepared for submission as previously 
approved by the committee, so it was available for the Town Meeting final approval in May. 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Due to another meeting commitment, J. Bilotta left meeting at 6:15pm 
 
Some additional time was spent by committee to better understand how drop box was updated and how 
additional spreadsheet might be helpful.  J. Belliveau will post additional information in drop box in next 
few days. 
 
New Business 
J. Belliveau presented an updated Job Description for the Building Commissioner.  The only change was to 
the reporting relationship directly to the Land Use Director.  Previously this role reported to the Town 
Manager.  With the current vacancy of the role of Building Commissioner it was the appropriate time to 
make such a change. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director to update the Building 
Commissioner’s job description as submitted. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Public Comment 
There was no public comment, nor Committee comment 
 
Proposed next meeting Wednesday, May 1, 2023. 
5:00pm Hybrid – In Person/Zoom 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:59pm by W. Bertrand 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
 