===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  July 19, 2023    
6:00pm – Town Hall/phone 
Hybrid 
 
 
In Person Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Muir Haman, Library Director 
 
W. Bertrand opened the Meeting at 6:06pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the July 5, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by D. Fortune to accept and approve the minutes from the July 5, 2023 meeting 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
There were no ongoing business issues on the agenda 
 
New Business 
J. Belliveau presented a new hire for Reserve Police Officer.  She requested that we consider adjusting the 
hire into Grade 10 step 8 as the hire was for a recently retired Sergeant from the Lunenburg Police 
Department, so had extensive skills not normally included in candidates for Reserve Officers. The group 
agreed this was justification for such an adjustment. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director to offer the Reserve Office Grade 
10 Step 8 from the SAP. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
 
Job Description Review of PACC jobs.  We covered the following jobs and utilizing the position 
classification system manual we assigned points as noted:  PACC Production Technician (425 pts); 
Videographer (330 pts); Senior Videographer (420 pts). 
 
Job Description Review of Library jobs.  We covered the following jobs and utilizing the position 
classification system manual we assigned points as noted:  Library Page (305 pts), Library Assistant (380 
pts); Staff Librarian (550 pts). 
 
Public Comment 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
The group attempted to identify the next meeting date, because we didn’t have all members, J. Belliveau 
agreed to send a note to entire committee seeking the  best alternatives for a future meeting.  
 
D. Fortune made a motion to adjourn at 7:26pm 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 