===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  June 6, 2023    
6:00pm – Ritter Building 
 
In Person Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
By Phone:  Joanna Bilotta 
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Pauline Roy COA Outreach Coordinator, 
Christopher Ruth, Facilities Director, Thomas Gammel, Police Chief 
 
W. Bertrand opened the Meeting at 6:05pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were neither Committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the May 31, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept and approve the minutes of the May 31, 2023 meeting. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote: All in Favor 
 
New Business 
 
With the assistance of the police chief, the group explored the job responsibilities of the Administrative 
Assistant’s role in the police department, utilizing the grading tool the Committee has been using to clarify 
grade levels on various roles in the SAP.  The initial outcome resulted in 340 points but several areas were 
identified as potential upgrade situations.  The group identified that there might be two levels of 
Administrative Assistant’s in this group and more work is needed before this would be clear. 
The Chief then identified that the current Reserve Police Officer role will need to be rewritten as standards 
have changed. He will work with Julie Belliveau to address the new requirements. 
 
The Committee, with the help of the Facilities Director explored the Beach Director’s job description 
utilizing the grading tool noted above, as well as the job descriptions for Lifeguards and the Recreation 
Director. The group realized that the beach roles had some significant risk/responsibilities given the need to 
keep beach users safe, and had to have a variety of certifications to perform these roles. Then when 
examining the Recreation Directors role there were some issues given that this role manages the beach 
positions, but does not require the certifications, nor have same high responsibility levels as the Beach 
Director.  The group agreed to do additional work on this group to insure the correct grade identification 
was made. Beach Director:  Points 625;     Lifeguard:  Points 475;     Recreation Director:  Points 570 
 
The Committee did not make any motions to complete these reviews at this time; more work will be done to 
insure the correct outcome is accomplished. 
 
Public Comment 
There were neither Committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Proposed next meetings  
Tuesday, June 13, 2023 - 6:00pm – In Person 
Wednesday, July 5, 2023 – 6:00pm – In Person/Zoom 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 7:54pm by D. Fortune 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 