===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  November 28, 2023   
5:30pm – Ritter Bldg, - in person meeting  
 
Committee Attendees:   
Wendy Bertrand, Susan Andrews, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present  
Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:36pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no public or Committee comments 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes from the November 13, 2023 meeting of the Personnel Committee were reviewed  
             Motion by D. Fortune to accept the minutes as presented for the November 13, 2023 Personnel Committee Meeting 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business: 
The Committee continued to examine the re-rating of the COA positions.  D. Fortune and S. Andrews had adapted the 
current spreadsheet for easier review and the Committee began examining the various roles within each grade level, 
focusing especially on the COA and library roles as they related to similar roles in each grade level.   
The Committee identified the following recommendations to be considered with the Department Managers: 
Dietary Aide:  The 11/13/23 meeting identified that Confidentiality seemed to be weighted to high; at this meeting we 
identified that the description the consultant drafted showed an average weight of  up to 30# and the previous 
description showed up to 60#.  Needs to be clarified 
Asst. Meal Site Manager:  The 11/13/23 meeting identified that the confidentiality measure seemed to be weighted too 
high.  No other items identified at this meeting. 
COA Outreach Assistant:  The current JD seems very limited without much content, recommend revision; perhaps we 
were missing a page?   
Meal Site Manager:  The 11/13/23 meeting identified that the confidentiality measure seemed to be weighted too 
high; at this meeting we identified that we felt that the work experience should be weighted higher (D2 to D3), and 
perhaps the supervisor role lower and work environment higher. 
COA Van Driver: The 11/13/23 meeting identified that the confidentiality measure seemed to be weighted too high.  
At this meeting we identified both judgment and physical demand seemed to also be too high. 
COA Outreach Coordinator:  The Committee felt that the experience level of this role should be measured higher than 
noted and the Occupational Hazards might be too high.   
COA Director: The Committee felt that the experience (D3 to D4) and supervisory measures should be higher (D5 to 
D6). 
 
The Committee had a general discussion on measuring Directors and were there different levels of Directors, 
example: Beach Director perhaps is more reasonably noted as Beach Supervisor. 
 
Library Assistant: The Committee questioned if the level of experience was too high; unclear if this is PT high school 
student assignment or someone more skilled ie: education HS Diploma or equivalent. 
Staff Librarian:  The Committee questioned that the level of education should be higher i.e. Masters Degree; and that 
level of experience might be lower? 
Library Page:  There are currently no employees in this category 
Videographer:  The Committee questioned that the Occupational Hazards should be measured higher (D1 to D2). 
Sr. Videographer:  The Committee questioned that the Experience should be higher (D3 = 3-5yrs) 
Admistrative Asst – Conservation:  This description opened a conversation on the differences in these types of roles; 
each department appears to utilize their employee if various ways utilizing different skill requirements.  This will be 
explored as we move ahead.  For now the Conservation role seems to have higher weighting in several areas that 
seems too high:  accountability, judgment, complexity and personal contact.  Needs more review. 
Administrative Asst. – IT:  The Committee questioned if this is more a customer service type role rather than 
administrative Assistant, but ratings seemed appropriate: 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
New Business 
None 
 
 
Public Comment 
There were no comments from the public or the Committee 
 
Our next meeting will be December 12, 2023, at 5:00pm 
Ritter Building 
 
W. Bertrand made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 7:28pm 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 