===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Personnel Committee  
Minutes: June 13, 2023   
6:00pm – Ritter Building 
In Person Attendees:   
Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand, Joanna Bilotta-Simeone 
Via Teams:  Bill Bernard 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Pauline Roy COA Outreach 
Coordinator; Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits Coordinator/Risk Manager, Adam Burney, Land 
Use Director, Sue Doherty, COA Director  
Absent: Sue Andrews 
J.Bilotta opened the Meeting at 6:01pm with members noted in attendance  
Public Comment:  
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time.  
Approval of Minutes:  
None to Approve 
New Business  
James "Jim" Ricci is a recently retired Fire Captain returning as a call Firefighter/EMT. Because he has 
over 30 years of experience, suggested rehiring at a grade 9, step 8 - $27.76. No discussion as all agreed 
this was justified. Motion by J. Bilotta, Secord by D. Fortune. Approved 3-0 vote. 
 
Ashleigh Denio is the candidate for the Administrative Assistant - Conservation department. Based on 
her education and experience, the recommendation is a grade 8, step 2 FY24 rate $21.86 (starting after 
7/1/23-new FY24 rate). W. Bertrand asked A. Burney if she had been told proposed rate already. No 
additional discussion as all agreed this was justified. Motion by W. Bertrand, Secord by D. Fortune. 
Approved 3-0 vote. 
Ongoing Business  
Job Description Review: 
7 positions reviewed. 
J. Belliveau reviewed rating system - all positions rated using new point/rubric system. There are 12 
catagories (knowledge and training, level of experience, supervision required, supervision exercised, 
accountability, judgement, complexity of position, personal contact/interactions, confidential 
Information,  occupational hazards, work environment, physical demands) are looked at for each position, 
and supervisors gave the committee input, along with committee discussion and each category was 
assigned points based on degree needed for the role.  
Positions reviewed were: 
-Building Commissioner 
===PAGE 2===
- Administrative Assistant (Conservation) 
- COA Assistant Outreach Coordinator 
- COA Van Driver 
- Intermittent Heavy Equipment Operator 
- Seasonal Cemetery Laborer 
- Sewer Business Manager 
J. Bilotta reminded the committee that all positions need this collaborative discussion from committee, 
and supervisors who are present. All assigned points in each category and total number of points 
determined, and recorded. D. Fortune and J. Belliveau said the points sit on our new grid will be looked 
at during later meetings. 
Public Comment  
Public Comment –none 
Committee Comment – J. Belliveau provided the Committee with information regarding the upcoming 
Board and Committee training on Public Records, Open Meeting Law, and Conflict of Interest on 6/22 
at the Senior Center, and referred the Committee to their Town email for further detail. 
Next meeting Wednesday, July 5, 2023.  
6:00pm – In Person  
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 8:12pm by J. Bilotta 
Second: W. Bertrand  
Vote: All in Favor 
 