===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  December 20, 2023   
5:00pm – Town Hall - in person meeting  
 
Committee Attendees:   
Wendy Bertrand, Susan Andrews, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present  
Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:06pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no public or committee comments 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes from the November 28, 2023 meeting of the Personnel Committee were reviewed.  
             Motion by D. Fortune to accept the minutes as presented for the November 28, 2023 Personnel Committee Meeting 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business: 
None 
 
New Business 
The Sewer Business Manager Job description was not available for review, will be done at next meeting. 
The Committee began to examine several positions that previously were noted as having some question regarding 
degree rankings.  PACC Production Tech both items in question, Education and Occupational Hazards were 
determined to be correctly represented. Exec Asst to TM and SB, Personnel Contact was changed from Degree 6 to 
Degree 4, and Confidential was correctly represented. PS Head Clerk, Confidential was correctly represented. PACC 
Manager, Experience was changed from Degree 3 to Degree 4. Seasonal Cemetery Laborer was changed in a number 
of areas; Experience was changed from Degree 4 to Degree 3; Accountability was changed from Degree 3 to Degree 
2; Judgment was changed from Degree 3 to Degree 2; Physical Demand was changed from Degree 4 to Degree 3. 
Payroll and Benefits Coordinator/Risk Manager, the Committee felt that the job description was incomplete and 
needed to be rewritten. Tax Collector/Treasurer, the Committee found no reason to change current grading. 
Intermittent Heavy Equipment Operator, Supervision should be noted as Degree 1. Asst. TM/HR Director, 
Accountability was changed from Degree 5 to Degree 6.  Network Administrator, this job description was found to 
have been correctly graded. Principal Assessor, Supervision Received was changed from Degree 5 to Degree 6, 
Complexity was changed from Degree 5 to Degree 4, and Personnel Contact was changed from Degree 4 to Degree 5.  
Beach Director, the Committee felt the title needed to be changed to Supervisor/Coordinator to better reflect the level 
of responsibility.  The final roles were from the fire department and all were left unchanged. 
 
Public Comment 
There were no comments from the public or the committee 
 
Our next meeting will be January 17, 2024, at 5:00pm, location to be determined 
 
And potential following meeting on January 31, 2024, location to be determined 
 
W. Bertrand made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 6:51pm 
Second:  S. Andrews  
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 