===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  October 24, 2023   
5:30pm – Ritter Bldg, - Hybrid 
 
Committee Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present/or or on the call:    
Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Pauline Roy, COA, Paula Bertram, Sewer Business 
Manager, Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits Coordinator/Risk Manager; Dave McDonald, Brett 
Ramsden 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:36pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
D. Fortune asked that J. Belliveau update the objectives of the current project of the revision of job 
descriptions as their appeared to be some confusion on the part of some employees and some town leaders 
on the project.  
 
Dave McDonald addressed the committee on the project, as he felt that the project may not be accurately 
reflecting the responsibilities of the employees, referencing the sewer department’s recent inputs.  He felt 
that the members of the sewer committee should be included in these discussions. 
 
Julie Belliveau then outlined the project objectives, noting the use of a rating tool that has been utilized in 
other similarly sized municipalities like Winchendon Ma.  The tool helps to standardize job descriptions to 
objectively evaluate the various responsibilities.  This current focus is insuring accurate job descriptions 
that are inclusive of roles responsibilities, rating that role and finally adapting the current leveling system of 
the SAP to better reflect the roles identified.  It is a lengthy process and we are currently in the initial phase 
of the project, insuring accurate job descriptions.  It is not the intent of this project to adversely harm any 
employee’s current status. 
 
Pauline Roy spoke about the previous reference that most of the various town vacation policies were 
similar.  She had researched the various groups and had sent on overview of her findings to the committee 
previously.  She referenced the document and spoke to a variety of differences that she felt warranted 
additional review by the committee. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes from previous meeting not available 
 
Ongoing Business 
None 
 
New Business 
Vacation Leave Accrual As the committee had previously discussed, the method of calculating vacation 
accrual had several applications that employee felt were neither fair nor equitable.  The committee reviewed 
the current plans, and any options that might easily balance these programs throughout the municipality.  
Nancy O’Rourke was attending and clarified a series of concerns and possible remedies.  Wendy Bertrand 
offered to be the project lead to research this important issue and come back to the committee with 
recommendations on a possible remedy.  The target of any policy change would be the May 2024 Town 
Meeting. 
J. Bilotta made a motion to direct W. Bertrand to research and recommend any changes to the vacation 
leave accrual policy, back to this committee for final resolution 
Second D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Job Description Rating Project – Next steps the group believes that we now have examined each SAP job 
description that is currently active.  Several are in process to reexamine and amend as needed, but most are 
done. S. Andrews and D. Fortune will examine the Benefits Coordinator/Risk Manager JD.   D. Fortune 
will update the current spreadsheet to reflect current active elements so that the group might begin to look  
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
for jobs that don’t seem to fit correctly.  We might examine departments as a group, then levels within those 
departments, or specialized areas such as administrators across departments. 
Proposed next meeting will examine COA and Library departments 
 
 
Public Comment 
There was no committee comments, Nancy O’Rourke recommended that while looking at the vacation 
accrual time we should include sick time as well. 
 
Potential next meeting will be November 13, 2023, at 5:30pm; then another on November 28, 2023. 
 
D. Fortune made a motion to adjourn at 7:15m 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 