===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  October 17, 2023   
5:30pm – Zoom Mtg. 
Committee Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present:    
Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Heather Lemieux, Town Manager, Jo McLaughlin, 
PAC Manager 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:37pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from committee members, nor the public 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the September 26, 2023 meeting were reviewed, noted were several minor areas not accurately 
noted that will be corrected for the record. 
Motion by W. Bertrand to accept and approve the minutes, with the amended corrections for the September 
26, 2023 meeting. 
Second D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor  
 
Minutes of the October 4, 2023 meeting were reviewed, noted were several minor areas not accurately 
noted that will be corrected for the record. 
Motion by W. Bertrand to accept and approve the minutes, with the amended corrections for the October 4, 
2023 meeting. 
Second S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor  
 
Ongoing Business 
None 
 
New Business 
Amended PAC Manager Job Description 
J. Belliveau presented a revised job description for the Public Access Cable Manager.  This updated role 
better outlines the responsibilities of the PAC Manager.  The committee amended several areas to be clearer 
about responsibilities of the role.   
Motion by D. Fortune to accept the recommendations of the Assistant Town Manager/HR Director to 
amend this job description for the PAC Manager in the SAP. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Job Description Rating  
The committee reviewed the following job utilizing the position classification rating and guidelines and 
assigned points as noted: PAC Manager (660 pts). The employee in that role was present and was 
concerned the rating seemed to be lower than expected.  The employee noted that many more hours were 
spent on the job than the budget supported (28 hours weekly). The committee felt that several areas might 
not accurately reflect the roles responsibilities, and would examine that more closely as project proceeds. 
 
Public Comment 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Potential next meeting will be October 24, 2023, at 5:30pm 
 
W. Bertrand made a motion to adjourn at 6:33m 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 