===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  May 31 2023    
6:00pm – Town Hall 
 
In Person Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand 
By Phone:  Donna Fortune, Joanna Bilotta 
 
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Pauline Roy COA;  
Sue Doherty COA Director 
 
W. Bertrand opened the Meeting at 6:15pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the May 1, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by J. Bilotta to accept and approve the minutes of the May 1, 2023 meeting. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote: D. Fortune abstained as she had not reviewed the documents, all remaining members voted 
to approve motion. 
 
New Business 
As Sue Doherty was present to discuss the new job description for COA Outreach Assistant, W. Bertrand 
made a motion to adjust the meeting agenda to review this item first.   
Seconded:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
J. Belliveau presented a request to amend the current job description of COA Outreach Assistant.  This 
request is to cover a part time person in this role and updates the various duties that are part of this role.  
This position has more recently been vacant, but the new fiscal budget approved the addition of the role in 
the COA.  
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the HR Director for the changes to the COA 
Outreach Assistant job description 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
J. Belliveau reminded the committee that they had a mailbox in Town Hall for any correspondence for the 
committee. 
 
Ongoing Business 
The group began a general discussion regarding the continuation of the Job Description and SAP grade 
level project.  J. Belliveau advised the group that she had received authorization from Bernie Lynch of 
Community Paradigm Associates, LLC that we were able to utilize the Position Classification System (PCS 
= Position Classification System) they had done for the Town of Winchendon. The key difference is that 
Winchendon has 16 Grades vs. Lunenburg’s current 20 Grades.  The group familiarized themselves with 
the classification system and, taking the various jobs within the Council on Aging group began to explore 
how this system might work within this small group.  By utilizing the updated job descriptions and also 
reviewing the past job descriptions the group was able to adapt the job requirements into how they fit in the 
Classification System.  As this system is somewhat universal, the twelve evaluation factors and the 
weighting of each fit comfortably into the job descriptions we had for our SAP employees. The group 
assessed four roles as they were represented in the job descriptions and were able to come to agreement as 
to their potential responsibility levels. 
1) Dietary Aid = currently SAP Grade 2, The PCS assessment totaled 305 points = Grade 2 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
2) COA Assistant Meal Site Manager = currently SAP Grade 3, The PCS assessment totaled 350 
points  = Grade 3 
3) COA Meal Site Manager = Currently SAP Grade 5; The PCS assessment totaled 445 points = 
Grade 4 
4) COA Onsite Coordinator = currently SAP Grade 9; The PCS assessment totaled 605 points  = 
Grade 8 
 
This was the group’s first attempt as utilizing this methodology and all agreed that it closely fit our needs; 
the group will continue to assess job descriptions group by group to validate each to the PCS system.  The 
group also agreed it was helpful to have P. Roy at the meeting, as she clarified several areas of work for the 
committee.  Because of this, the Committee will ask the department head from the group to be assessed to 
come to the meetings to assist in clarification of specific roles identified in the job description. 
 
Public Comment 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Proposed next meeting Tuesday, June 13, 2023. 
6:00pm – In Person/Zoom 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 8:22pm by J. Bilotta 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 