===PAGE 1===
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  November 13, 2023   
5:30pm – Ritter Building - Hybrid 
 
Committee Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present/or on the call:    
Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits Coordinator/Risk Manager; 
Bill Bernard DPW Director 
 
Absent: 
Wendy Bertrand 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:38pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no public or committee comments 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes from the October 17, 2023 meeting of the Personnel Committee were reviewed  
             Motion by S. Andrews to accept the minutes as presented for the October 17, 2023 Personnel Committee Meeting 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Minutes from the October 24, 2023 meeting of the Personnel Committee were reviewed 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the minutes as presented for the October 24, 2023 Personnel Committee Meeting 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
New Business 
The committee realized that the Zoom connection was not working and we were neither connected nor recording.  J. 
Belliveau connected back to the support group and was able to get the connection back at 5:50pm.  The committee 
restarted the meeting and again opened the Public Comment and receiving none also restated the approval of the minutes 
from the October 17, 2023 meeting and the October 24, 2023 meeting so that the items would be recorded. 
 
B. Bernard presented a request to the Committee to offer the Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager candidate a Grade 
8, step 4 as she had related experience from her prior employment with another municipality. J. Belliveau also supported 
this request. 
Motion by S. Andrews to accept the recommendation of the Assistant Town Manager/HR Director to offer Grade 8 Step 4 
to the candidate for Assistant to the Sewer Business Manager. 
Second D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
J. Belliveau discussed the language for a warrant article for the Annual Town Meeting in May, per the Committee’s 
request, outlining the request to change current practice in paid vacations and sick leave to calculate the time in hours, 
changing that practice to calculating in days. The Committee discussed the issue as part of an ongoing project that W. 
Bertrand is leading to examine the SAP vacation and sick leave practices. The warrant discussion was targeting the spring 
2024 Town Meeting. The committee felt any discussion regarding how the warrant would be established should be part of 
the entire project determinations. No warrant preparation is needed at this time.  
 
Positions in the Council on Aging were re-examined as a result of the initial grading. With the help of the spreadsheet 
containing the Committee’s initial grading of each SAP position, the Committee was able to compare levels of similar 
types of jobs. The Committee quickly noted that each of the COA positions had been given top degree ratings in the area 
of confidentiality, when similar roles had been graded with lesser ratings. The Committee realized that this was one of the 
===PAGE 2===
initial group of positions that were evaluated. As the Committee has learned over time, their initial understanding of 
different elements of this grading has been amended. As municipalities have significant responsibilities to transparency 
for public access of information, there is very little confidentiality that employees have access to.   
 
Each job role was reevaluated from 100 pts down to 20 pts. in this specific area. The Committee was unable to complete 
the review of COA positions, as well as Library positions, due to a conflict with the Zoom link. The goal is to complete 
the reevaluation of these departments at the next meeting. 
 
Public Comment 
There were no comments from the public or the Committee. 
 
Next meeting is November 28, 2023 at 5:30pm in-person only at the Ritter Building. 
 
S. Andrews made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 6:44m 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 