===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  July 5, 2023    
6:00pm – Town Hall/Hybrid 
In Person Attendees:   
Susan Andrews, Wendy Bertrand, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director, Patrick Sullivan Fire Chief 
Phone:  Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits Coordinator/Risk Manager 
 
Absent: Joanna Bilotta 
 
W. Bertrand opened the Meeting at 6:08pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the June 6, 2023 meeting and the June 13, 2023 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by D. Fortune to accept and approve both sets of minutes from the June 6, 2023 meeting and June 
13, 2023 meeting. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Vote: All in Favor 
 
W. Bertrand made a motion to adjust the agenda to review the job descriptions from the Fire Department to 
accommodate Chief Sullivan’s attendance in the meeting. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Vote:  All in Favor 
 
New Business: 
With Chief Sullivan’s assistance the group reviewed the departments job descriptions and identify how it 
might be assessed using the grading tool.  The group covered the following jobs:  On Call EMT (590 Pts); 
On Call EMT/Intermediate/Advance (640 Pts); On Call Firefighter (640 Pts); On Call paramedic (690 pts); 
On Call Firefighter/EMT (680 Pts); On Call Firefighter/Paramedic (750 Pts); On Call Fire Lieutenant (815 
Pts); On Call Captain (850 Pts). The Chief identified that the current Public Safety Coordinator job 
description should be rewritten and updated. The existing job description was not graded.   
 
He also identified that there was an issue in promotions to these on call roles as they are covered by SAP 
salary grid and sometimes a promotion only moved the employee up by 10 cents.  The promotion practice 
does place employees in the next step closest to the current salary, and at times the amount might be 
minimal.  We suggested that the only way to deal with these types of promotions would be to request an 
exception to policy and request a step more appropriate to nature of promotion. 
 
Ongoing Business 
J. Belliveau presented an updated job description for a Police Reserve Officer.  She had worked the updated 
role with the Chief of Police to better outline the requirements of the job.   
D. Fortune made a motion to accept the new job description for a Police Reserve Officer. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Public Comment 
There were neither committee comments, nor public comments during this time. 
 
The group attempted to identify the next meeting date, because we didn’t have all members, J. Belliveau 
agreed to send a note to entire committee seeking the best alternatives for a future meeting. 
 
D. Fortune made a motion to adjourn at 8:08pm 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Vote:  All in Favor 