===PAGE 1===
 
Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  January 9, 2023    
Zoom 6:00pm 
 
 
Attendees:   
Susan Andrew Eric Arnold, s, Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand, 
Later arrivals Joanna Bilotta (6:13pm), Eric Arnold (6:15pm) 
 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Asst. Town Manager/HR Director; Thomas Gammel, Police Chief, Bill 
Bernard, DPW Director, Pauline Roy, COA, Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits Coordinator/Risk 
Manager, Barbara Lefebvre, Sewer Business Manager, Mary Beth Bernard, HR Consultant 
 
Wendy Bertrand opened the Meeting at 6:07pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from the Public, W. Bertrand wanted to be sure to get an update on the Recreation 
Directors position. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes of the December 5, 2022 meeting were presented and reviewed. 
Motion by D. Fortune to accept and approve the minutes of the December 5, 2022 meeting as presented 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
New Business: 
Job Description Revision 
J. Belliveau presented the updated Civilian Traffic Member job description, assisting Chief Gammel who 
was having internet connection issues.  The update mainly addressed the addition allowing active public 
safety employees to be considered for the role to  broaden the availability of candidates.  
 
Motion by D. Fortune to accept the recommendation of the HR Director for the update of the Civilian 
Traffic Member job description, and for it then to be submitted at the next available town meeting for final 
approval. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
H.R. Consultant Update 
Mary Beth Bernard brought the committee up to date on the Job Description/Job Classification Project she 
is responsible for.  The project is on target with rough drafts of 75% of descriptions completed, meetings 
with key stakeholders finished, and collection of outside survey materials in progress. She has also utilized 
available public municipality data.  She has done FLSA reviews and classification reviews as each job 
description completed.  There is an open issue that they are  reviewing to assess if the Administrator role 
should be expanded to create department specific administrators as she has seen a wide disparity in these 
roles.  Some changes noted as departments modernized and roles changed.  She suggested that when final 
job descriptions were approved that employees be asked to acknowledge receiving the job description.   The 
pay plan proposal will be completed for review by February 8, 2023 and final drafts of proposal will be 
February 15, 2023.  There was a discussion regarding the need for more in person interviews, which will be 
considered as this was a voluntary process. 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
Facility Director 
J. Belliveau updated the group on this opening.  There is a candidate that is being reviewed, not yet offered 
the role as of thi s date, but should be reviewed by Select Board shortly. The role will be a grade 16, and 
with this candidate’s background, the pay step is targeted at step 5.  She asked for the committee’s approval 
of this action. 
Motion by S. Andrews to approve the recom mendation of the HR Director to offer this role of Facility 
Director at Grade 16 step 5. 
Second:  J. Bilotta 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Public Comment 
There were no additional comments from committee, or from the Public 
 
Next Meeting: 
As needed and regular meeting February 6, 2023 6pm 
 
 
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:45pm by J. Bilotta 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 