===PAGE 1===
Town of Lunenburg  
Personnel Committee  
Minutes: February 7, 2024   
5:00 –Hybrid – Town Hall 
In Person Attendees:   
Donna Fortune, Wendy Bertrand, Joanna Bilotta-Simeone  
Via Teams:  Sue Andrews 
Also Present: Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Pauline Roy COA Outreach Coordinator; Nancy 
O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits/Risk Manager  
J.Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:07pm with members noted in attendance  
Public Comment: 
Public Comment: N. O’Rourke expressed concern for the process in rating some positions versus others, based on how 
supervisors presented/wrote job descriptions. 
Committee Comment: D. Fortune asked if in the future job descriptions would be evaluated/reevaluated using this same 
rating system. W. Bertrand expressed concerns over inequity among job descriptions, and how they were rated 
particularly ones were supervisors, came in person along with the employee. Also, descriptions evaluated early on, versus 
recent ones. J. Belliveau also spoke saying there needs to be consideration for organizational layout as well with ratings. 
Approval of Minutes:  
January 31 minutes approved, motion by D. Fortune, second by W. Bertrand. All in favor via role call vote. 
New Business  
Reevaluation of payroll and benefits risk manager position rating. Rating seemed low compared to others previously in its 
same category. Complexity, education, judgment and accountability and occupational hazards were all reconsidered. 
Occupational hazards was increased to next degree based on lifting of office objects. And accountability was brought up 
to degree five. 
Committee also looked at other outliers, such as Land Use Director, and determined that that position was OK and in line 
with others and its category. Looked at Building Commissioner, and the potential of decreasing supervision exercised and 
judgment. 
• Meeting cut short due to room use conflict. 
Public Comment  
Public Comment –none 
Committee Comment – none 
Next meeting Monday, February 12.  
5:00pm In Person Ritter Building  
Motion by to adjourn meeting at 6:36 by J. Bilotta 
Second: W. Bertrand  
Role Call Vote: All in Favor 
 