===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  March 11, 2024 
5:00pm – Ritter Building - Zoom 
 
Committee Attendees:   
Wendy Bertrand, Susan Andrews, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present  
Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits Coordinator/Risk 
Manager 
Via Zoom: Amanda Moore, Public Safety Coordinator, Pauline Roy, COA Outreach Coordinator, Paula Bertram, 
Sewer Business Manager, Bill Bernard DPW Director, Jay Simeone, Finance Committee, Dave Passios, Finance 
Committee 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:03pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There was neither committee comment nor public comment. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
The minutes of the last three meetings were reviewed and no adjustments noted.  
Motion by S. Andrews to approve the minutes of the February 11, 21 and 26, 2024 meetings as submitted 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
Examine Grid Options – The committee reviewed the cost structures of each of the three scenarios they had chosen to 
more fully examine with Nancy O’Rourke’s assistance.  The option to drop Step one in the current grid and keep the 
3% step alignment resulted in approximately $49.7K retroactive cost to the FY2024 SAP salary budget.  The group all 
supported this effort.  There was discussion regarding the need to upgrade the grid given the market changes and the 
significant difficulty we have seen in hiring and retaining employees in our municipality.  The next option was to start 
the grid at $15.30 per hour and keep the 3% step alignment resulted in approximately $$78.6K retroactive cost to the 
FY2024 SAP salary budget.  This option was similar to first option, and although acceptable, the general discussion 
was that it too might not be enough.  The last option was to drop Grade one as the only employees in that grade would 
be upgraded to grade two as a result of our job level review.  That option resulted in approximately $22.2K retroactive 
cost to the FY2024 SAP salary budget.  As they did little for the majority of SAP employees the group felt it did not 
correctly move the salary grid forward to address our outstanding issues. 
 
Julie Belliveau offered a new option that would start the grid at $15.50, keeping the 3% step alignment, but also 
considering adjusting several grades that would support growth in the upper levels.  That was a recommendation that 
the original consultant had made to the committee.  The group agreed that she and Nancy should continue their 
assessment of this option including the cost to FY2024.  
 
The group then addressed the issue of outliers.  The committee agreed that each of the elements of this project had 
offered valuable data and collective supported its outcomes.  The consultant, although not going far enough offered a 
variety of market assessments to our current jobs, a start of structuring job descriptions better and an over view of 
compensation theory that was current playing out in municipalities.  The system grading system we then utilize to 
better address the job descriptions gave us a uniform set of evaluation criteria that improved consistency.  The actual 
grading system was too constraining and did not provide solid support for level assessment.  The compensation survey 
that was recently done included 8 towns and a variety of job roles we sought comparison for.  While some of the 
information was useful, it too did not answer all the questions as comparing how jobs actually compared to each other 
was not always clear.  The group found that by using the various data from each of these efforts helped to address 
how the group should proceed.  It was clear that by whatever means examined our SAP grid did not adequately meet 
the needs of the marketplace salary changes.  They also identified that the recent salary grid changes to the Clerical 
Union grid must be factored in.  The new contract covering FY24, 25 & 26 created some significant disparities with 
the SAP employees that are in similar roles. As their contract covers a retroactive pay adjustment for FY24 and then 
new grids for FY25 & FY26, they have set a new target that the SAP must keep in its focus. 
The committee identified several roles that they would recommend be considered for a raise to their SAP grade levels.  
Library Page from Grade 1 to Grade 2; COA Meal Site Manager from Grade 6 to Grade 7; COA Outreach 
===PAGE 2===
Coordinator From Grade 7 to Grade 8.  There was one remaining role that the team needed to research more fully, the 
PACC Manager.  That role will be examined at the next meeting. 
 
New Business 
The job description for the Police Executive Assistant was previously provided at an earlier meeting. This position is 
currently part of the Clerical Union, but now needs to be added to the SAP. As the position had been reviewed during 
this project, and comparing to comparable comps, the group supported its placement at Grade 10 in the SAP.   
 
Motion by D. Fortune was made to place the Police Executive Assistant in the SAP at Grade 10 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Sick Leave – J. Bilotta advised the group that an employee is questioning a potential gap in the SAP regarding sick 
leave.  The request brought to light that the Sick Leave Policy in the Lunenburg School Union was different than the 
one outlined in the SAP.  The difference was how the use of sick time would be applied.  The school union allows the 
utilization of sick time in cases of childbirth/adoption for non-birthing parent, the SAP does not.  The committee 
agreed there was not reason to have different applications of this process and supported that the SAP policy be 
amended to include similar language.  J. Belliveau will propose new language to this policy.  We will review the 
potential changes at the next meeting. 
 
Next meeting, Wednesday March 13, 2024 will include final assessment of options for new FY24 & FY25 SAP salary 
grids, determination of final outliers to recommend be adjusted, sick policy review, creation of warrant articles for 
Town Meeting and delivery of proposal to Select Board. 
 
Public Comment 
N. O’Rourke clarified how sick time and vacation was utilized and suggested personnel time be taken initially 
followed by sick time as the amended policy on sick be considered.  Pauline Roy asked for an update on the progress 
of the group to assess changes in how vacation time was managed.  This was a topic that the group had discussed 
several times and understood it may need to be amended, but no progress has been made on an outcome.  The 
committee acknowledged the job description project had taken the majority of its focus, but agreed to examine for a 
potential fall warrant.   
There were no committee comments. 
 
 
W. Bertrand made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 7:02pm 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 