===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  March 13, 2024 
5:00pm – Ritter Building - Zoom 
 
Committee Attendees:   
Wendy Bertrand, Susan Andrews, Joanna Bilotta, Donna Fortune 
 
Also Present  
Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Nancy O’Rourke, Payroll and Benefits Coordinator/Risk 
Manager, Ana Lockwood, Parks Commission via Zoom: 
Pauline Roy, COA Outreach Coordinator, Bill Bernard DPW Director, Jay Simione, Finance Committee 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:02pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
Ana Lockwood spoke regarding her support to allow the job title of Beach Director to remain.  She was concerned it 
would not be well received.  J. Bilotta agreed and said that the Committee agrees to leave it as Beach Director. 
 
D. Fortune acknowledged and thanked Nancy O’Rourke for all the work she had undertaken to calculate the impact of 
each of the various FY24 & FY25 salary grid scenarios that the Committee explored over the last few weeks. The 
Committee was grateful for her continued support. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
The minutes of the March 11, 2024 were reviewed and it was noted that there was one adjustment needed to amend 
and correct the date of the February 26, 2024 meeting.    
Motion by W. Bertrand to approve the amended minutes of the March 11, 2024 meeting. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
Ongoing Business 
The Committee reviewed the grade classification for the PAC Manager.  This role had been previously reviewed and 
the Committee felt it was not adequately leveled.  D. Fortune had researched other towns with this role and discovered 
that many towns had changed the organizational structure of this groups work to move it into a separate non-profit 
organization and that might be why we could not find any survey material compatible to the role.  The Committee 
unanimously agreed that they would recommend to the Town Manager that this role be upgraded from an SAP Grade 
11 to an SAP Grade 12. 
Motion by S. Andrews to recommend that the Town Manager consider a grade change be made to the PAC Manager 
from a SAP Grade 11 to a SAP Grade 12. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in favor 
 
J. Belliveau reported that she had discussed all the previous recommendations for SAP grade changes with 
appropriate management leaders.  The COA Director felt that the change recommended for the COA Outreach 
Coordinator should be one grade higher than the grade the Committee was recommending.  The Committee discussed 
the input but did not feel a second grade change was warranted at this time. All other management leaders supported 
the recommended changes. 
 
New Business 
The Committee again reviewed the SAP salary grid options they had selected for final review.  With Nancy 
O’Rourke’s assistance in preparing the cost model for each, the Committee examined each options goals and the 
financial impact each would have for the budget.  Each option had a component that would provide a retroactive pay 
adjustment to the FY2024 salary budget.  Prior to the FY2024 budget year, the group had recommended and gained 
approval for a 2.5% grid adjustment for the FY2024 SAP salary grid.  The current FY2024 SAP salary grid reflects 
that change.  The group explored each option with the help of spreadsheets outlining costs, changes to grid, and 
changes to some SAP levels.  The group determined that this group was paid below many other towns in comparable 
roles and also below the employees in Lunenburg’s Clerical Union.  Their recently approved annual contract renewal 
for those in similar roles, showed a significant disparity over the terms of their three year contract. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
 
Based on market adjustments, the Committee agreed that they supported adapting the FY2024 SAP salary grid by 
starting Grade 1, Step 1 at $15.50 and leaving changes to steps at 3% per step.  This would cost approximately 
$89,771.61 in retroactive pay to the FY2024 budget.  They then agreed to support dropping Step one from the 
FY2025 SAP salary grid, and continuing the 3% change per step, and adding an increase to the grid of 2.5% for 
FY2025 SAP salary grid. This would cost approximately $110,948.87. 
 
A motion by W. Bertrand to recommend that the Town retroactively adjust the current FY2024 SAP salary grid 
starting with $15.50 at Grade 1, Step 1, and leaving a 3% step adjustment.  This would require a retroactive pay 
adjustment to SAP employees for their FY2024 pay year. To also recommend that the FY2025 SAP salary grid drop 
step 1 from the grid, continue the 3% change per step and add an increase to the grid of 2.5%. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The Committee reviewed J. Belliveau recommendation for rewording of the Sick Leave section of the Salary 
Administration Plan, updating it for inclusion of broader application of how sick leave might be utilized.  This was 
discussed at the March 11, 2024 meeting when the Committee realized that the application of this benefit was not 
delivered in the same manner as the similar benefit for those in the Lunenburg School contract. 
A motion by D. Fortune to adopt the recommendation of J. Belliveau for the change that will update the SAP Sick 
Leave Policy. 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The Committee then reviewed and finalized the wording for the Warrant that will be presented for the May 4, 2024 
Town Meeting.  J. Belliveau provided a recommendation for each article. 
A motion from W. Bertrand to accept the recommendation for Article X, which outlines several job roles that the 
Committee recommends for grade level changes and including the recently recommended change to the PACC 
Manager. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
A motion from D. Fortune to accept the recommendation for Article XX which outlines changes to the SAP Salary 
Grid for FY2024 and FY 2025. 
Second:  W. Bertrand 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
A motion from S. Andrews to accept the recommendation for Article XXX which outlines changes to the SAP 
regarding the use of sick leave, for SAP employees. 
Second:  D. Fortune 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
The Committee discussed next steps to forward the groups recommendations to the Town Manager, Select Board and 
the Finance Committee for their review.  Julie will prepare the recommendations into a formal package to deliver to 
the Town Manager, who will then provide it to the Select Board and Finance Committee.  Committee members will 
make themselves available to each of the groups for questions regarding the recommendations made. 
 
Next meeting will be scheduled for April 30, 2024 at 5:00pm, unless a sooner meeting is needed. 
 
Public Comment 
P. Roy asked for an update on the Committee’s review of calculation of the SAP vacation accrual.  This topic was 
brought up and previously discussed, with a commitment from the Committee that they would further assess and 
review potential changes to this practice.  J. Bilotta acknowledged that the job description project just completed had 
fully overtaken the group, but acknowledged she would ensure the Committee returns to a review of this policy 
application. 
There was no public comment from Committee members. 
 
D. Fortune made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 5:50pm 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 