===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  February 26, 2024 
5:00pm – Ritter Building - Zoom 
 
Committee Attendees:   
Wendy Bertrand, Susan Andrews, Joanna Bilotta,  
 
Also Present  
Julie Belliveau, HR Director, Amanda Moore, Administrative support Police Department, Pauline Roy, COA, Paula 
Bertram, Sewer Dept 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:05pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There was not committee comment nor public comment. 
 
Approval of Minutes: 
No minutes were available for review. 
 
New Business: 
None 
 
Ongoing Business 
The committee reviewed the outcome of the various options they had selected for analysis the previous meeting.  
Nancy O’Rourke, Sue Andrews and Donna Fortune had worked together to put the various options together.  Donna 
outlined the issues identified as the options were reviewed for final submission to committee.   
Each option was reviewed and the committee debated the outcomes of each.  They agreed that utilizing the 
Winchendon 13 level grid did not seem to transition well into a final option for the project, although agreeing that it 
had been useful in crafting the job descriptions into a more consistent assessment of each role. They also agreed that 
the salary survey recently completed was inconsistent as the nature of the roles reviewed might not be similar to the 
Lunenburg roles and that even though we asked for minimums and maximums some towns only put in one figure, 
perhaps the actual salary of the employee?  So while some interesting information, it could not be reliably utilized to 
set new SAP grids.  The committee decided on two primary results.  Dropping Grade 1, leaving each of the remaining 
grades the way they were and adding a grade 17.  Dropping Grade 1 and also dropping Step 1 in the grid, leaving the 
grid with a 3% step adjustment. Dropping Grade 1 and starting grid at $15.50 with a 3% step adjustment. 
The committee agreed that FY2025 would be adjusted differently and also agreed that there were possibly half a 
dozen jobs that the committee might support being given a level adjustment as a result of the job description reviews. 
 
Next meeting dates were discussed, given the quickly approaching Town Meeting the group decided to meet again 
Monday March 11, 2024 to continue this important work. A second meeting option, if needed was Wednesday March 
13, 2024.  The committee was asked to review which job roles they might consider needed to be upgraded and be 
prepared to discuss at next meeting.  Nancy agreed to take the options outlined and prepare a cost assessment on each 
for the committee’s review.  
 
Public Comment 
Nancy O’Rourke advised the committee that she had reviewed previous SAP salary adjustments and that FY18 had 
been a 6% change to the grid, but there had been no adjustment for a few years previous to that, and since then it had 
been between 2%-2.5% adjustments to grid each year since. 
 
W. Bertrand made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 6:29pm 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 