===PAGE 1===
 
   Town of Lunenburg 
Personnel Committee 
Minutes:  January 17, 2024 
5:00pm – Town Hall - in person meeting only 
 
Committee Attendees:   
Wendy Bertrand, Susan Andrews, Joanna Bilotta,  
 
Also Present:  
Julie Belliveau, Assistant Town Manager/HR Director, Pauline Roy, COA Outreach Coordinator, Paula Bertram, 
Sewer Business Manager, John Reynolds, Sewer Commission Chair, Bill Bernard, DPW Director, Sue Doherty COA 
Director 
 
Absent;  
Donna Fortune 
 
J. Bilotta opened the Meeting at 5:02pm with members noted in attendance 
 
Public Comment: 
There were no comments from the committee members.  Bill Bernard asked for an update on the job description for 
the DPW Director. Julie advised him that the description was with Heather Lemieux and will be reviewed at the next 
Personnel Committee meeting. Paula Bertram provided the Committee with a copy of her and Bill Bernard’s 
assessment of the Sewer Business Manager’s role.  
 
Approval of Minutes: 
Minutes from the December 20, 2023 meeting of the Personnel Committee were reviewed  
             Motion by W. Bertrand to accept the minutes as presented for the December 20, 2023 Personnel Committee Meeting 
Second:  S. Andrews 
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 
 
Ongoing Business: 
None 
 
New Business 
The Committee reviewed the amended job description for the Sewer Business Manager.  The Committee suggested 
that Bill consider increasing the level of experience given the expansive knowledge needed for this role. The 
Committee also acknowledged several other areas that the revised description better explained increasing the degrees 
of some areas.  The new total = 655 pts./ Grade 10. 
The Committee then began a review of the roles that covered the Council on Aging employees.  One outstanding issue 
was the element of confidentiality.  The Committee agreed that the kitchen positions should be a degree 2 for 
confidentiality. That adjusted their totals. COA Dietary Aid (also corrected Physical Demands to Degree 2 like all the 
other roles in that group. 345Pts/Grade 5; COA Asst. Meal Site Manager 370 pts/Grade 6;  Van Driver 460 pts/Grade 
7; COA Meal Site Manager did not change.  The COA Outreach Coordinator also was adjusted for confidentiality, 
from a Degree 3 to a degree 4 changing to 615 pts/Grade 9. 
The Committee did not review the Land Use or the Facility Directors job descriptions.  
 
The Committee reviewed what remaining positions needed review and the next steps of the process. The Committee 
will begin to develop a new salary grid over the next few meetings.   
 
The group set aggressive February meeting targets given the need to prepare for the presentation to the Select Board; 
Targeted:  January 31 - Wednesday; February 7 - Wednesday, February 12 - Monday  
 
 
Public Comment 
There were no comments from the public or the committee 
 
The next meeting will be January 31, 2024, at 5:00pm, location to be determined 
 
W. Bertrand made a motion to adjourn the meeting at 6:57pm 
Second:  S. Andrews  
Roll Call Vote:  All in Favor 