===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 10/12/10 COA Meeting 
September 14, 2010 
 
Welcome :  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to or der at 9:30 a.m.  and welcomed new COA board 
member Deb Seeley. 
 
Present 
: Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Jane Doyle, Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley,  
Jim Hays, Sandy Flanagan, Joyce Wass, Barbara Brown, and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Mary Lynn Conrad & Fred Crellin 
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the August 10, 2010 COA meeting minutes as presented.  
All approved, motion carried.  
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  
 
Doreen Noble gave a verbal finance report and said that all bills have been paid and are currently up to 
date. 
 
The Eagle House internet provider, Net 1 Plus, has dropped all their clients and the town has contract ed 
with Comcast for internet service.  The Friends of the Eagle House Inc. had been paying the monthly bill 
for the senior center.  A request was made to Nancy  Strom, Technology Director, to put the COA 
Comcast fees into the town technology budget.  Nanc y originally thought that she would be able to do 
this but it will not be possible at this time.  The  COA Director will need to put an article requestin g 
funds be put into the COA budget to pay for this service at the next Special Town Meeting in  
January 2011.  In the mean time a request will be m ade to the Friends of the Eagle House Inc. to 
continue paying the internet bill until this is resolved.   
 
Simplex Grindell was at the Eagle House to do routi ne sprinkler system checks and discovered that the 
sprinkler system in the large meeting room was not operating at full capacity.  They discovered pin holes 
in the sprinkler system piping which was causing th e compressor to fire constantly.  They assume that 
this problem stems from damage that was incurred du ring the ice storm of 2009.   It is a possibility t hat 
the senior center will need to be closed for a day in order to fix this problem.  The Town Manager has  
been informed of this situation. 
Later on during the Director’s report, board member  Deb Seeley asked the Doreen if she had any idea 
what the cost to fix this problem was and Doreen replied no. 
Board member Jim Hays asked if the repair costs wou ld be covered in the COA budget and Doreen said 
that she thought that they would fall under the town building maintenance budget. 
 
A new intern from Fitchburg State College has arriv ed at the senior center.  Sarah Beckman-Devik will 
be working on Thursdays and Fridays until the end o f December.  Sarah has a wealth of knowledge and 
will also be conducting arts and crafts classes on Fridays. 
 
The Friends of the Eagle House Inc. will be holding a Spaghetti Supper on October 20, 2010 from  
5-7PM at the senior center.  Doreen asked for volun teer help from the COA board members.  She stated 
that her office staff always goes above and beyond their everyday duties but that they were like a 
 “3 legged stool” and that it wasn’t fair to ask th em to work all day then volunteer at night for this  
function. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Doreen thanked the COA board members who attended t he Volunteer Recognition ceremony.  She was 
pleased that there were many awards given that day to the Eagle House volunteers. 
 
A request was made to the Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lion’s Club to donate the use of their gas gril l 
for the COA Cookout/Volunteer Recognition ceremony.   This request was denied and Sue Doherty was 
told that the Eagle House could use it but needed t o pay the $100.00 fee.  Doreen was not pleased with  
this. She felt that it was not in the sense of “com munity spirit.” She had Sue send an email to their 
Secretary stating that “she thought that we had a b etter relationship and that we would not be renting  the 
grill.” She also made a request to be put onto the Lions Club September meeting agenda.   Doreen 
informed Kerry Speidel, Town Manager, that she woul d be attending their meeting to voice her 
displeasure and Kerry suggested that she make the COA aware of what she was doing.   
The Lunenburg Fire Dept. was gracious enough to provide the grill for this event. 
  
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:  Pete Lincoln stated that “this parking lot commit tee is the best committee he has ever been on”.   
He said the architect has completed the plans, which they are in the process of modifying. 
They will no longer be able to have the entrance/exit on side of the building which is next to the 
Jones House.  The town is selling this property and the lot has been divided therefore 
construction of the parking lot cannot go through the property lines.  The entrance/exit will need 
to be on the Kids Kingdom side of the building. 
In December the committee will be applying for a block grant.  If the grant is not approved they 
will need to seek other funding sources. 
Doreen stated that municipal employees are surely dedicated to this project saying that three 
town employees came in for a meeting concerning the parking lot while “off the clock”. 
Doreen stated that another way to make the costs more manageable for this project would be to 
utilize the elders as “police” under the watch of t he Town Constable.  She spoke with Laura 
Williams, Chief Administrative Assistant at the Selectmen’s office, about this possibility. 
 
New Business: 
  No new business was discussed at this meeting. 
 
Committee Reports: 
  COA sub-committee seats were assigned to the board members and they are as follows: 
    
Board Development – Joyce Wass (Chairperson), and S is Montuori 
   Advocacy – Sis Montuori (Chairperson), Jane Doyl e, Mary Lynn Conrad and Joyce Wass 
   ByLaw – Fred Crellin (Chairperson), and Barbara Brown 
   Finance – Jim Hays (Chairperson), Deb Seeley, Ja ne Doyle, and Fred Crellin 
   Director’s Evaluation – Entire COA Board 
 
Correspondence: 
  A number of correspondences were read to the COA board which included the following: 
 
A thank you note from former COA board member Emily Foster was re-read. 
A job posting from town hall advertising the position of Public Access T.V. Coordinator.  
A poster advertising a Recycle project at the Ayer High School. 
An invitation from the Chester Mossman Teen Center to “An Evening of Appreciation”. 
A letter from the Executive Office of Elder Affairs concerning Formula Grant funding. 
Sis Montuori said she received a “Hello” note at ho me from former board member  
Gloria O’Brien.  
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
General Discussion:   A discussion about Eagle Heights was held.  COA board member Joyce Wass was  
concerned about the prospect of “40B” projects in M assachusetts being eliminated. 
 
The COA member information sheets will be updated for the October meeting. 
 
Janitorial issues were discussed and Doreen said that there were some issues with the new 
cleaners, including a language barrier, but otherwise things are working out well. 
 
Upcoming Events 
:  See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.   
All approved, and the motion was carried.   The meeting ended at 10:30 a.m. 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  