===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 12/14, 2010 COA Meeting 
November 9, 2010 
 
Welcome :  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:33 a.m.   
 
Present 
: Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director) , Mary Lynn Conrad, Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, 
Joyce Wass, Barbara Brown, Sandy Flanagan, Sis Montuori, Jim Hays and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Deb Seeley 
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the October 12, 2010 COA meeting minutes as amended.  
All approved, motion carried.  
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  
 
A COA budget sheet was given to all members to review.  (See Attached) 
 
Doreen reported that approximately 137 people attended the pancake breakfast in October. 
 
The Director will be meeting with Joann Champa from the Massachusetts Department of Transportation  
on November 15, 2010 in Boston.  She is hoping to p rocure another van for the Town/Senior Center to 
be used for special trips.  A question was raised a bout who would be responsible for maintenance for 
this van to which Doreen replied that it maybe diff icult to get service from MART and that perhaps the  
Highway Department may have to be used for that. 
 
The Town Manager will be presenting her 5 year budget projection to the Selectmen this evening. 
 
The Eagle house maybe getting another student inter n in January.  Doreen feels she would like to be 
careful with her selection of a student and will request that there be multiple applicants to choose from. 
 
Doreen informed the board that she now sits on the “Human Service Advisory” committee at Fitchburg 
State University and also on the Montachusett Home Care Crisis Advisory committee.  
 
The Senior Citizen Property Tax Work Off Program me t on Monday November 8, 2010.  
Approximately 14 out of the 16 participants in this  program will be receiving an abatement on their 
property tax bills for 2010.  The committee is in t he process of revamping the applications for 2011.  All 
town departments will be asked to send in their req uests for applicants.  The Council on Aging will ha ve 
positions open for 3-4 people in 2011. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:  The final plan and list of costs for the parking lot have been completed.  Apparently there was a 
newspaper story in a local paper which was misleading about the cost of the project.  The request amount for 
the grant is $333,000.00 and according to Shelly Hatch from MRPC (Montachusett Regional Planning 
Commission) the funds should go to the project which is most “shovel ready”, which the Eagle House par king 
project is.  There are three required public meetings for this project and Doreen and Shelly will be meeting with 
the Selectmen again on Tuesday December 7, 2010 for the third meeting.   
The grant is due on December 10, 2010. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The Housing Rehab project is “coat tailing” on the parking lot grant.  This grant consists of a 15 year, no 
interest loan, to income eligible homeowners for housing repairs up to $30,000.00.  Eligible households are in a 
designated “block” area near the Eagle House Senior  Center.  If the homeowner stays in their home for the  
15 years, the loan will be forgiven. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
COA Agenda Format:   Sue Doherty informed the board that Llynn Klaft f rom the Town Clerks questioned the 
COA agenda format.  She requested that the meeting address be added to the agenda and that items such as 
“Old Business” and “New Business” not be included o n the agenda if nothing was listed under either title. 
After a short discussion the COA board agreed that the address should be added but that they were happ y with 
the way that the monthly agenda is set up so there would be no other changes made.  
 
Committee Reports: 
  There was no quorum for the COA Finance Sub-Commi ttee which was scheduled to 
meet at 9AM before the COA meeting so the meeting w as cancelled and rescheduled to December 14, 2010 a t 
9AM.  Sue Doherty will post this meeting with the T own Clerks office.  Reminder Emails will also be se nt to 
all COA sub committee members. 
 
Pete Lincoln suggested that the COA Board Developme nt Committee begin looking for a new COA board 
member.  He also suggested that eliminating the COA Directors Evaluation Committee be looked into. 
 
Correspondence: 
   No new correspondence at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
  Doreen informed the board that the town of Templeton will finally be breaking ground on 
a new senior center.  She said that she had started that project 10 years ago and that it was wonderful to finally 
see it come to fruition.  
 
Upcoming Events 
:  See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.   
All approved, and the motion was carried.   The meeting ended at 10:45 a.m. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  