===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG COUNCIL ON AGING MEETING  MINUTES       Minutes Approved at the 2/9/10 COA  Meeting 
JANUARY 12, 2010                                                                                                                                
 
Welcome  : Pete Lincoln, Chairperson called the meeting to order at 9:35AM. 
         
Present: 
   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson), Doreen C. Noble (Director),  
    Barbara Brown, Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Emily Foster, Jim Hays, Elisabeth Montuori, Joyce Wass,  
    and Susan Doherty (Admin.Assistant). 
 
Absent:
  Bonnie Edes & Sandy Flanagan 
 
Guests:
  Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc. 
   Tom Chuilla & Sgt. Anthony Boulette of the Worce ster County Sheriff’s Department 
 
Minutes: 
   A motion was made and seconded to accept the December 8, 2009 COA meeting minutes, as read and corrected.  
     All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
   
  
Finance/Informational Report: Doreen had met with the Capital Planning Board earlier this morning where they 
reviewed the plans and presented a time line for construction of the proposed parking lot at the Eagle House.  She 
commented that she was optimistic about the meeting and that the Capital Planning Board and Town Manager were 
extremely supportive and helpful.  A quote from McKenzie Engineering was given for the cost to have the proper plans 
drawn up for the project and it would be $35,000. It was also determined that it could ultimately end up costing 
upwards to $150,000 to complete the project.  The Town would like two more quotes for the project. 
It was mentioned that perhaps the price could be winnowed down by utilizing Town Departments for parts of the 
construction process.   
She stated that the town inquired whether or not the Friends of the Eagle House Inc. could provide start up money of 
approximately $15,000 in order to begin the Grant application process.   
Lloyd Carlson will investigate the possibility of the Friends of the Eagle House cashing in a CD early and incurring a 
penalty fee. 
Tom Chuilla from the Sheriffs Department mentioned that perhaps the prison could help with the dirt removal. 
 
Doreen stated that the utility bills that have been received are becoming a huge drain on the budget.  She will be looking 
into applying for a grant to have the building “go green”. 
It would be about eleven days until the budget packages arrive from the Town Manager.  She also stated that FY11’s 
budget would be “bare bones”. 
 
A new van driver, Bill Anderson, has been hired and is expected to start soon. 
 
Doreen attended an Employee Assistance Group with other department heads at Town Hall.  She will be participating in 
an online course on “How to Improve Management Skil ls”. 
 
 
OLD BUSINESS 
 
 
Parking Lot Update:  Discussed under Director’s report. 
 
Property Tax Work Off:   The Property Tax Work Off Committee met and it was determined that they have $12,000 in 
funding for the program.  Each participant will receive up to $750 in reduction of their property tax bill.  As of this 
meeting they have sixteen elders who have applied for the program. 
There was one complaint received from a Town Employee about the program being funded this year while furloughs 
were being given to employees. 
Doreen spoke to the Town Manager and she informed Doreen that she is still planning on funding this program for 
FY11 regardless of the complaint as the furlough would not be impacted since these are two different funding sources. 
===PAGE 2===
 2 
 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
  There was no new business on agenda for this meeting. 
 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS :    
 
Minutes from the COA Board Development Committee and the COA Advocacy Committee were distributed to COA   
members for review. 
A motion was made and seconded to accept the COA Board Development and COA Advocacy Committee minutes as 
presented.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
CORRESPONDENCE 
   There was no correspondence received for this meeting. 
 
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION   Sis Montouri mentioned that the residents of Pearl Brook Housing received a letter informing them 
of upcoming rehabs to the buildings there.  Sis also emailed the Leominster Housing Authority asking to be kept abreast of the 
renovations. 
 
Sue Doherty and Sue Nelson took the online State Ethics Test.  All employees and volunteers of the town will need to take this 
test by April 2010. 
 
Doreen informed the board that she will be moving to Lunenburg on January 23 
rd . 
 
Doreen and Lunenburg Police Officer Mike Luthe are in the process of developing a “self-defense” cours e for senior citizens to 
be held at the Eagle House. 
 
NEXT MEETING:     TUESDAY FEBRUARY 9, 2010 AT 9:30AM 
 
UPCOMING EVENTS: 
  See attached agenda 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
   A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:10AM 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted    
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistan Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistan Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistan Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistantt tt    
 