===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at the 11/9/10 
                  COA Meeting 
October 12, 2010 
 
Welcome 
: Pete Lincoln, Chairperson called the meeting to order at 9:34a.m. 
 
Present: 
 Peter Lincoln, (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Mary Lynn 
Conrad (Vice-Chair Person), Jane Doyle, Sis Montouri, Deb Seeley, Jim Hays, 
Sandy Flanagan, Barbara Brown, and Fred Crellin. 
 
Excused: 
  Joyce Wass, Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) on vacation 
 
Minutes 
: A motion was made and seconded to accept the September 14, 2010 
minutes.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
   
 
Finance-Informational Report 
 
Doreen circulated three lists:  COA Board members and Staff Directory, FY11 
COA Subcommittees, and COA Selectmen Appointees.  Members reviewed and 
updated lists. 
 
The Director reported on a recent meeting with the Lion’s Club, concerning 
donation of grill for Appreciation Barbecue.  The Lion’s Club wants to keep a 
good relationship with the Eagle House; although one member wanted to charge 
a fee for use of the grill.  The lion’s Club stated that an apology letter would be 
forthcoming.  A grill was borrowed from the Fire Department for the function. 
 
Doreen recently attended the MCOA Mass State COA Convention; at which she 
met with other Directors and attended some informative seminars on Visiting 
Nurses, Health Care Reform, Substance Abuse, Walk-away Project, Best 
Practices on Transportation, and Spiritual Issues at the End of Life.  CD’s on 
death and dying issues are available for use. 
 
Kudos to Sue Doherty!  The annual report is finished and there were many new 
and innovative programs.  All state paperwork is completed for formula grant to 
fund outreach worker, Meals on Wheels, etc. 
 
Doreen reported that she has met with Joann Champa to set up an appointment 
to begin the process of applying for a new town van.  Doreen has procured 3 
vans successfully in the past.  The process takes from 3-5 years. 
 
Several grants were written for cultural enhancement.  We hope to get the Mood 
Swing Orchestra and perhaps a folk singer for St. Patrick’s Day. 
 
===PAGE 2===
At the MCOA Conference Doreen found that the Eagle House is very active 
compared to some Senior Centers in the state.  We do a lot with very little 
money.  She brought up some possible programs for the coming year: Gray-
Belts, Zen-gevity (Yoga and Buddhist Meditation).  Rochester has a “Ye Olde 
Breakfast Shoppe” open to the community from 7:00-9:00a.m.  Food for thought. 
 
Doreen asked to meet with the Finance Subcommittee prior to the next meeting.  
A meeting time was set up. 
 
General Discussion: 
 
 
Fred Crellin asked about the Spaghetti Supper on October 20.  Volunteers were 
asked to contact Linda Halligan. 
 
Jim Hays questioned the fact that Sue Doherty keeps track of the number of 
people who attend programs and events.  Doreen answered that the reason is for 
financial staffing time and to keep track of what we are doing in this facility.   
 
Fred Crellin and Sis Montouri have driven by Pearl Brook and report major 
improvements. 
 
Pete asked how Eagle House custodial service is working out.  Doreen reported 
we really need a custodian.  Staff members continue to move furniture and set up 
for every event. 
 
Old Business: 
 Parking Lot Update 
 
Final approval of design is finished and being submitted for block grant. 
 
New Business 
: There was no new business discussed at the Oct. 12 meeting. 
 
Committee Reports: 
  Sandra Flanagan was added to the following COA  sub-
committees: Board Development & ByLaws. 
 
Correspondence:
 None 
 
Upcoming Events 
: See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
  A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.   
All approved and the motion carried. 
Meeting adjourned at 10:21a.m. 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Mary Lynn Conrad, Vice Chairperson 
 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 