===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes        Minutes Approved at the 1/11/11 COA Meeting 
December 14, 2010 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson),  
Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Joyce Wass, Barbara Brown, Sandy Flanagan, Sis Montuori, Jim Hays,  
Deb Seeley and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Guest:
  John Male  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:34 a.m.  
Pete introduced John Male to the board.  John told the board that he will be the liaison  
from the Town of Lunenburg Finance Committee and will be occasionally attending the  
monthly COA meetings.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the November 9, 2010 COA meeting minutes.    
All approved, motion carried.  
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  
 
A COA budget sheet was given to all members to review.   
 
Doreen reported that the Eagle House was closed on Wednesday December 8, 2010 due to staff illness.  
She had spoken to the Town Manager and received permission to close the building for the day.   
 
Although it is flu season, a student from the Ace/A chieve program at the High School had been arriving  
with the job coach with obvious signs of sickness to work in the food service area.  Doreen contacted the 
Department Head of the Ace/Achieve program and requested that the students who are ill not be brought 
to the Eagle House for work.  Unfortunately this me ssage was not communicated and the student 
returned on December 13 
th, still exhibiting signs of illness.  The Job Coach and students were sent back 
to school and Doreen is currently in the process of  speaking with the Principal Mike Barney about this  
situation.  She feels that they did not adhere to t he agreement which was made about not sending the 
students when they are sick.  She will request that  they do not return to the senior center until the 
cold/flu season is over in the spring. 
After a lengthy discussion about this issue, a moti on was made and seconded to support the Council on 
Aging Director in her actions regarding the Special Education Department at the High School.   
All approved, motion carried. 
 
Doreen has applied for a Mobility Assistance Program Grant for another van for the senior center.   
This van is an eight passenger van, with lift equip ment, with a price tag of $54,879.00.  If this gran t is 
received it will be at no cost to the Town of Lunen burg.  It will be federally funded at 80 % and 
Montachusett Regional Transit Authority (MART) will  fund the other 20 %.  Doreen had met with 
Joann Champa from the Massachusetts Department of Transportation in November and Ms. Champa felt 
confident that Lunenburg would be approved for this  grant.  This bus will be used on a more “flexible”  
basis and will not have many of the existing regulations that the current MART van must adhere to. 
She will be checking into the maintenance part of t he vehicle as to who will be responsible for the 
mechanical upkeep. 
Pete Lincoln congratulated Doreen on a job well don e.  Doreen also said that Faith Anderson helped 
with answering the questions on the grant and thanked her for doing so. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The COA Finance Committee met a 9AM before this mee ting to discuss the upcoming budget.  The 
financial budget package has not been received from  the Town Manager yet and they will meet again on 
January 11 th  at 9AM. 
 
The intern from Fitchburg State finished her progra m with us on December 3 
rd .  Doreen stated that she 
did a satisfactory job.  Another intern candidate will be coming in for an interview on December 15 th . 
 
Sixteen people have completed the Lunenburg Senior Citizen Property Tax Work Off program.  The 
new job list for 2011 will be available soon and will have approximately fourteen positions on it. 
 
Doreen thanked Jane Doyle for donating the new Wii Game System to the Eagle House.  Hopefully we 
can get a Wii bowling league started at the center.   She also thanked Pete & Deb Lincoln for the large  
soda and popcorn donation they made to the Friday afternoon movies. 
 
More roof repairs to the newer section of the building had begun but unfortunately the roofer fell ill with 
a heart attack and work has stopped.  Jim Breault, Facilities Manager for the town said that they got the 
weather shield on which should be sufficient and he  is trying to contact the roofer to figure out when  he 
will be able to complete the job. 
She also stated that the front foyer is on the list for repair. 
There are still small leaks in the sprinkler system  which stemmed from the damage incurred during the 
2009 ice storm and they need to be repaired at an e stimated cost of $3500. to $4000. The system is not  
compromised at this time. 
 
Pete Lincoln stated that he received a phone call a t home from an irate van rider.  The person claimed  
that he was being discriminated against because he was a given a thirty day probation by the Director.   
Doreen explained her reasons for the warning which were that the person was trying to transport a “30 
pack” of beer on the bus and he appeared intoxicate d.   
 
Doreen informed the board that she has applied for the Director’s position in Pepperell and had receiv ed 
word that she has been added to the top three appli cants and will be going for another interview on 
January 6, 2011. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot/Housing Rehab Grant:  Doreen was not able to attend the final Eagle House parking lot meeting 
with the Selectmen’s Office due to illness.  Shelly  Hatch from MRPC was unable to attend also but sent her 
assistant to answer any questions that they had.  Apparently the Board of Selectmen were not pleased with 
signing off on the project claiming they had not received all of the information that they were supposed to have.  
The grant announcement will be in April 2011. 
A discussion was held among the board about how much of a “dangerous situation” this could become if t his 
was not passed.  The general consensus was that a “ Plan B” should be in place. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Eagle House Closure:   Discussed under Director’s Report 
 
Friends of the Eagle House Inc. President Resignation:   Due to health issues Lloyd Carlson has resigned as 
President of the Friends of the Eagle House Inc.  A letter will be written to him thanking him for his service to 
the Eagle House. 
 
Committee Reports: 
  Discussed under Director’s Report 
 
===PAGE 3===
Correspondence:    Letters addressed to both Doreen Noble and Sue D oherty from the Lunenburg Turkey 
Hill Family Lions Club were read.  Both letters expressed regret for the “misunderstanding” of the gri ll use 
donation request which was made by Sue last summer for the COA Volunteer Appreciation Cookout and was 
denied by an individual in the organization.  The board thought that the letters did not bring a solution to the 
problem.  COA board member Barbara Brown, who is also a member of the Lions Club, will speak to the Lions 
Club at the next meeting about this matter. 
 
General Discussion: 
  Happy Holidays was wished to all members. 
 
Upcoming Events 
:  See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.   
All approved, and the motion was carried.   The meeting ended at 11:05 a.m. 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  