===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes     Minutes approved at the 6/8/10 COA Meeting 
May 11, 2010 
Welcome 
: Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:36. 
Present : Pete Lincoln, [Chairperson}, Mary Lynn Conrad,[Vice-Chairperson], Doreen 
Noble,[Director], Jane Doyle, Sandra Flannagan, Joyce Wass, Sis Montouri, Emily 
Foster, Jim Hays, Bonnie Edes 
Absent 
: Fred Crellin 
Excused : Barbara Brown, Sue Doherty [on furlough] 
Guest : Lloyd Carlson, President of Friends of the Eagle House, Inc. 
Minutes : A motion was made and seconded to accept the April 13, 2010 minutes. All 
approved, motion carried. 
Director's 
 Report : 
Finance-informational Report:  Doreen Noble reported that funds were transferred from 
the COA account prior to Town Meeting without her knowledge. COA members also 
reported the first time they heard about this was at Town Meeting. Doreen informed the 
COA that she will formally let the Town Manager know that she would like notification 
before funds are transferred. The council is willing to meet with the Town Manager for 
discussion before funds are transferred in the future. Doreen stated that she will also 
petition the need for additional hours, so money will not have to come from Utilities to 
cover adequate staffing. Special events require another staff person besides herself and 
Sue Doherty. Jane Doyle encouraged Doreen to emphasize safety and liability as other 
reasons for additional staffing hours. 
There was no financial report this month. There was one in April and the final report will 
be presented at the last meeting on June 8. 
The Director thanked council members for baking for Volunteer Appreciation and 
Heather Brendel's Reception. 
Old 
 Business : Lloyd Carlson reported that the Capital Planning Committee has approved 
$10,000 for the Parking Lot. A letter was read from Lloyd Carlson. The next step in the 
process will be to apply for the grant. A committee will be instituted. Doreen Noble and 
Peter Lincoln will represent the Eagle House on this committee. 
Bonnie Edes questioned the length of time spent on this Parking Lot project. The 
Chairman stated that Jean DeBruin expressed the need for additional parking back in 
2004. He also suggested that we could probably get some aspects done for nothing if 
people in town were asked. It was noted many times action doesn't happen until safety 
becomes a factor. 
===PAGE 2===
The COA requested that Lloyd Carlson send a letter to businesses throughout the region 
asking for Parking Lot donations. Jane Doyle suggested a personal visit as well as a 
letter often goes further to corporate. 
Tax Workoff: The program is continuing and participants appear satisfied. There are 16 
people placed in various town departments. 
FY11 Budget: Given a 9.25 total at Town Meeting, which would be $105,000. 
Furloughs: Furloughs will be completed for Sue Doherty on June7 and Doreen Noble 
on June8. 
Softball Fundraiser: Doreen informed us that the poster is ready and she will ask the 
Lion's Club for a canteen. Softball Game date is June 17, rain date June 24. COA 
members are invited and encouraged to attend. 
New 
 Business : 
Town Meeting:  Doreen reported that Kerry Spiedel, [Town Manager] gave kudos to the 
COA for doing well within our budget. 
COA Board Members Term Renewal: The first term has ended for Sis Montouri, Peter 
Lincoln, and Fred Crellin. They will be starting their second term in June. Emily Foster 
will be ending 9 years of devoted service on COA. We thank her for outstanding service 
and assure her that she will be missed. Deb Seeley is willing to serve replacing Emily 
Foster, and will be invited to attend the June meeting.  
There was a discussion concerning COA term limits. It was questioned whether this was 
mean-spirited or a means of getting rid of “dead wood”. It was mentioned the Term 
Limits were in our bylaws. The question was asked "Do we want to change the bylaws?" 
The Director noted that the state recommends term limits. Doreen mentioned that 
another option would be having honorary members. A question was raised concerning 
the fact that if someone needs to resign because of illness, etc; could someone whose 
term is up fill in for them. The director said it is am loophole and the discussion ended. 
2011 COA Slate of Officers:  At our last meeting it was moved and seconded that Peter 
Lincoln will remain as COA Chairperson and Mary Lynn Conrad will remain as Vice-
Chairperson. The aforementioned agreed to do this with enthusiasm. 
COA Barbecue\Volunteer Recognition Ceremony:  The date will be Tuesday, July 20, 
at 11:00a.m. At the Eagle House. COA members are invited to attend as they will be 
recognized. 
CDBG Grant: This grant is HUD funding for Parking Lot construction. Requirements are: 
June 11, Building Committee reviews bids. 
The grant will be for the Parking Lot and Housing rehab in our census block around the 
Eagle House. Completion of project is expected by May-July of 2011. Doreen asked the 
council to tell locals if they need help they can get it through Housing Rehab. 
===PAGE 3===
General Discussion: The COA thanks Heather Brendel for her work and Doreen Noble 
for taking an intern and for being such an inspiration as her field service supervisor. 
Adjournment: A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting. All approved 
and the motion was carried. The meeting ended at 10:52 a.m. 
Respectfully submitted,  
Mary Lynn Conrad,Vice-Chairperson  
 