===PAGE 1===
LUNENBURG COUNCIL ON AGING MEETING  MINUTES       MINUTES APPROVED AT 3/9/10 COA MEETING 
FEBRUARY 9, 2010                                                                                                                                
 
Welcome  : Pete Lincoln, Chairperson called the meeting to order at 9:35AM. 
         
Present: 
   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen C. Noble (Director),  
    Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Bonnie Edes, Emily Foster, Jim Hays, Elisabeth Montuori,   
    and Susan Doherty (Admin.Assistant). 
 
Excused:
  Mary Lynn Conrad, Barbara Brown, Joyce Wass & Sandy Flanagan 
 
Guests:
  Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc., Bill Anderson and Heather Brendel.       
               . 
    
Minutes: 
   A motion was made and seconded to accept the January 12, 2010 COA meeting minutes.  
     All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
   
  
Doreen began the meeting by introducing Bill Anderson and Heather Brendel to the board.  Bill is the new COA 
Monday/Tuesday Senior Van Driver and Heather is a student from Fitchburg State who will be interning at the Eagle 
House until May. 
 
Finance/Informational Report: Doreen informed the board that as of the date of this meeting she has not heard any 
information from the Town Manager concerning the FY11 COA budget.  She respectfully asked the board members not 
to contact the Town Manager on their own for information on the COA budget.  She also stated that she feels optimistic 
about the FY11 budget.   
 
The Town Manager had asked for statistics beginning from FY99 to present time.  These were compiled by Susan 
Doherty and they showed that the level of services at the senior center have dramatically increased through the years. 
 
Doreen was paid a visit by Robert Rand, Personnel Director for the Town of Lunenburg.  He informed her that he will 
be revamping the “Step and Grade System” which is c urrently used for Lunenburg  non-union, employees.   
She thought that the revamped system could possibly add another $1500 to the COA payroll budget. 
 
The utility lines in the COA budget will also be looked at again with the new addition of a sewer line item.     
She also said that herself and Susan Doherty are the only five day a week personnel and she feels that the staffing is 
dangerously low considering the amount of people who frequent the building at certain times during the week.   
 
Executive Office of Elder Affairs will fund the Formula Grant for the rest of FY10 in the amount of $10,500. 
 
Montachusett Home Health Care has gone to a “manage d care system” which in short means that when peopl e are 
discharged from the hospital and need home care they will be put on a long waiting list for services. 
MHHC has been the agency that we have been referring clients to but in light of the situation, referrals will now be 
made to private Home Care Agencies also. 
MOC Nutrition has also gone to “managed care system ” and they have asked the Director to “shake the tr ees” so to 
speak, and eliminate clients who are not in urgent need of home delivered meals.  Prospective clients will also be put on  
a long waiting list for this program. 
COA board members were very concerned about this latest “managed care” news and a discussion ensued in  relation to 
what could be done to help this situation.  Basically it was decided the best way to get the attention of people would be 
to lobby the politicians.  All board members were encouraged to write individual letters to Senator Jennifer Flanagan 
and State Rep. Jen Benson to ask for more money for this line item. 
  
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 2 
 
OLD BUSINESS  
 
Parking Lot Update:  The Town Manager, Kerry Speidel, had contacted Doreen with a possible solution to the 
problem of funding a parking lot at the Eagle House Senior Center.  She suggested that perhaps a grant could be 
obtained for adding senior citizen gym equipment to the existing Kids Kingdom and along with this could be a request 
for additional parking.  Kerry provided Doreen with brochures which showed the gym equipment, and these were 
distributed to the COA board members to review.  Board members were encouraged by this new idea to help resolve the 
parking issue at the senior center. 
 
Property Tax Work Off:   The Property Tax Work Off program now has sixteen people placed in various jobs through 
out Town departments.  The Tax Collector wanted to encourage new people to participate in this program and among 
the sixteen are three new applicants.  The Property Tax Work Off Committee will meet again in March. 
 
NEW BUSINESS 
   
 
Bucky’s Corner:   Sue Doherty reported that monetary donations were received from the Turkey Hill Garden Club and 
the family of the late Helen C. Pliska.  These donations will be used to purchase four new glass shelves and to install 
new lighting for the cabinets in Bucky’s Corner. 
 
Technology Donation: Doreen reported that a monetary donation from the family of the late COA Board Member 
Robert Fickett, has been received and will be used to purchase new technology for the office and an industrial can 
opener for the kitchen. 
 
 
COMMITTEE REPORTS : 
  There were no Committee reports for this meeting. 
 
CORRESPONDENCE 
   There was no correspondence received for this meeting. 
 
GENERAL DISCUSSION 
  Sis Montouri mentioned that she had received an email from Leominster Housing Authority 
concerning the construction at Pearl Brook Housing on White Street.  It stated that they were waiting for approval from the 
State to hire the General Contractor, which they have chosen, and that the construction/upgrades should be finished by 10/6/10. 
 
Doreen mentioned that the voluntary furlough which Sue Doherty and she will be taking in April is still on as scheduled. 
 
A question was posed about what the inclement weather closing procedure was if the schools closed early.   
If this should happen, it was decided that the Director will use her judgment and make the call as to whether or not the senior 
center will remain open or not. 
 
Bonnie Edes informed the board that she will not be at the March meeting. 
 
NEXT MEETING:     TUESDAY MARCH  9, 2010 AT 9:30AM 
 
UPCOMING EVENTS: 
  See attached agenda 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
   A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:00AM 
 
 
Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted    
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant    
 