===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes     Minutes Approved at the 8/16/11 COA Meeting 
Annual Meeting   
June 14, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director),  
Barbara Brown, Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley, Joyce Wass,  
and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Absent:
  Sandy Flanagan 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc.  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:34 a.m.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the May 10, 2010 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
  Taken out of order 
 
A motion was made and seconded to accept all sub-committee year end reports which included Finance,  
Board Development, Advocacy and Bylaw committees.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
There was no Director’s Evaluation committee report. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  Doreen reported that the Eagle House Senior Center is at its maximum capacity for room 
usage now.  All programs are going very well and we should exceed approximately 500 new names in FY11. 
 
The FY12 COA budget has been set and approved at To wn Meeting.  A new ten hour per week Outreach worke r will be 
hired.   
Increases in salaries are as follows: Director – 9% , Administrative Assistant – 3%, Outreach – 8%,  
Meal Site – 4%, Meal Site – 3%. 
 
A part time “on call” driver will be hired and fund ed through MART. 
 
The Lunenburg Friendly Seniors were concerned about the Eagle House being closed at 12:30 p.m. the Friday before their 
fair in October, they use this time to set up for t he Saturday event.  A staff person will be availabl e to keep the building 
open for them. 
 
The tree in the front driveway has been removed.  T his tree was dead as a result of damage incurred du ring the ice storm 
of 2009. 
 
Doreen reminded everyone of the new Eagle House hou rs change beginning on July 1, 2011; Tuesday 8 a.m.  - 6:30 p.m. 
and Friday 8:00 a.m. – 12:30 p.m. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:  There has been no word received as of this meeting on whether or not the grant for the parking lot has been 
approved or not. 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
New Van Update:   Doreen and Lunenburg Town Manger, Kerry Speidel went to meet with MART Finance Officer Bruno 
Fisher.  They learned that the grant for the new van was awarded to the Town of Lunenburg but that MART receives the 
van and title.  It was decided that an older van which MART will be retiring from their fleet will be given to the Town of 
Lunenburg to be used as the Town sees fit.  This will be a “pilot program” and the town will be respon sible for 
maintenance to the vehicle.  A revolving account for the “going places” van will need to be establishe d at a special town 
meeting.  This account will receive donations for the operation of this van. The “Going Places” van wi ll have fewer 
restrictions on usage and will be available for a fee for other town departments or town organizations to use. 
 
The Council on Aging will receive a brand new van from MART to be used as their every day van.  All past rules and 
regulations levied by MART will apply to this van.  The new van should be available the 2 
nd  or 3 rd  week in July. 
 
COA board member Jane Doyle suggested that a contract for both vans be put in writing, and be kept on file at the Eagle 
House Senior Center.  
 
Volunteer Appreciation Day:  Volunteer Appreciation Day will be held on Tuesday August 16, 2011.  A sign up sheet for 
specific duties that day was sent around to members to sign.  The Friends of the Eagle House Inc will be sponsoring this 
event by funding the food and entertainment. 
 
It was decided to change the Council on Aging meeting date from August 9, 2011 to August 16, 2011 so that COA 
members would all be able to attend the Volunteer Appreciation Day.  
 
Reminder New Hours for Eagle House:   Discussed under Director’s Report. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Eagle House Announcements on UTube: The Lunenburg Public Access television has been taping “Eagle House 
Announcements” on a monthly basis and it is now ava ilable to be viewed on UTube.   
 
Eagle House as Summer Cooling Station:  During the summer months if there is an extreme heat wave, the Eagle House 
will remain open as a cooling station.  There was one inquiry about this service but the client does not live in Lunenburg.  
The Eagle House will stay open only if there is a need from Lunenburg residents. 
 
Election of Officers – Chairperson & Vice Chairpers on 2012:   A motion was made and seconded to elect Pete Lincoln 
as COA Chairperson for a 1 year term and Mary Lynn Conrad as Vice-Chairperson for a 1 year term.  All approved, 
motion carried. 
 
COA Board Members Term Renewal:   All COA board members will be returning for FY12. 
 
Correspondence: 
  There was no correspondence to be read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
    
 
Pete Lincoln thanked everyone for a great year. 
 
All board members were reminded that there will be no July meeting. 
 
Upcoming Events 
:  See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion  carried.    
 
  Meeting adjourned at 10:55AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  