===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes     Minutes Approved at 3/8/11 COA Meeting        
February 8, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Sandy Flanagan,  
Sis Montuori, Jim Hays, and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Barbara Brown, Joyce Wass, Deb Seeley, & Mary Lynn Conrad 
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:34 a.m.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the January 11, 2010 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report : A new vendor, Trans Canada, has been added by the  town to help offset the cost of 
electricity from Unitil.  Trans Canada has been inc luded in the COA vendor list and funds have been pr ocured from the 
Unitil line to cover any bills coming from Trans Canada. 
 
A copy of the Director’s proposed FY12 budget was distributed to members for review and discussion. 
 
Doreen reported that Mike Barney, Principal of Lunenburg High School, has developed a Memorandum of Understanding 
concerning the ACE/ACHIEVE students.  One of the ma jor concerns was sending students to the Eagle Hous e when they 
were ill.  It was decided that if there was a conce rn, the student would be sent to the school nurse f or evaluation.  The 
Director of the Senior Center reserves the right to  “veto” the nurse’s decision of sending a student, if she feels that he/she 
is not well enough to be here. 
 
The roof of the Eagle House has been repaired altho ugh there are still extensive leaks above the foyer  due to ice dams.  
Doreen said that Jim Breault, Facilities Manager, h as worked diligently shoveling the roof and removin g snow from the 
sidewalks at the center but unfortunately it is jus t the “nature of the beast” during this snowy winte r that these problems 
are ongoing. 
There is also a leak in the vent over the stove in the new kitchen which is being looked at. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:  Shelly Hatch from MRPC has retired and Glen Eaton will now be in charge of the Eagle House parking lot 
grant.  Doreen stated that phone calls to local politicians asking for their support of the grant should be made at the end of 
February.   The Grant announcement will be made sometime in April 2011. 
 
Memorandum of Understanding ACE/ACHIEVE PROGRAM:  Discussed under Director’s report. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Conflict of Interest Law: Doreen informed the board that every board member needs to take the state “Conflict of Interest 
Law” test online. 
 
City of Brookline Resource Guide:   Pete Lincoln received the City of Brookline’s Resource Guide and shared it with 
board members.  It included useful agency information for elders in that area.  Doreen said that we also have the “Elder 
Resource Guide” with similar information in it whic h is put out by the Central Mass Agency on Aging. 
 
Sub:Committee Reports: 
   
 
The COA Advocacy Sub-Committee was scheduled to mee t this day at 9AM but there were not enough members  in 
attendance for a quorum.  Another meeting will be scheduled for March 8, 2011 at 9AM. 
 
===PAGE 2===
The COA Bylaw Sub-Committee will be setting a date to meet to discuss changing language in the COA By- Laws 
specifically the title change of CAFO to Town Manager. 
 
There was a brief discussion about the COA Director ’s Evaluation but was tabled until a draft of the D irector’s Job 
Description can be obtained. 
 
Correspondence: 
  Pete Lincoln read a thank you note from former Friends of the Eagle House President Lloyd Carlson. 
 
General Discussion: 
  Doreen informed the board that the Pancake Breakfast scheduled for February 9 th  has been 
cancelled by the Lions Club due to weather concerns. 
 
Upcoming Events 
:  See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.   
All approved, and the motion was carried.    
 
Meeting adjourned at  10:40AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  