===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at the June 14, 2011 COA Meeting 
May 10, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director),  
Barbara Brown, Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley, Joyce Wass,  
and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Sandy Flanagan 
 
Guest:
  John Male, Lunenburg Finance Committee  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:31 a.m.  
Pete welcomed John Male to the meeting.  Mr. Male a pologized to the COA board for not being at the 
Lunenburg Finance Committee meeting to lend support for the new van.  He was out of town on that day. 
 
Pete also said that he was having no luck finding a n inexpensive, full size version of the Boston Post  Cane that 
could be given to the recipient to keep. 
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the April 12, 2010 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :  Sue Doherty had developed a monthly COA budget p age with corrections 
made from the previous month, and distributed it to board members for review. 
 
Doreen had sent a letter to board members explainin g that the Personnel Committee has not developed a job 
description as of yet.  Doreen felt that there was no urgency for the COA board to get the Director’s evaluation 
completed at this time. 
 
The COA FY12 budget passed at the May town meeting.  Included in the budget were monies for more hours in 
the kitchen and ten hours for a second Outreach Coordinator. 
 
There will be an intern from Fitchburg State Univer sity working at the Eagle House from September 2011  to 
May 2012.  Doreen will be interviewing the candidates. 
 
Doreen reported that she sits on the Behavioral Sci ences Advisory Team at Fitchburg State University a nd 
attended a program with the Board of Accreditors concerning how prepared the graduating students were for the 
work force. 
 
The Eagle House still has two air hole leaks in the  sprinkler system which were caused by the ice stor m two 
years ago.  Jim Breault, Facilities Manager, has be en working on getting the issue repaired and is loo king into 
whether or not this will be covered by insurance. 
The hood over the stove in the new kitchen has been scheduled for a cleaning. 
The roofers are still tweaking the repairs to the r oof and when they have completed the project the fo yer will be 
able to be repaired. 
 
Doreen thanked Mary Lynn Conrad again for the large  gas grill, which was donated by Conrad’s Restauran t, 
and told her that they could drop it off at the Eagle House anytime that was convenient to them. 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
The Eagle House Grey Belts Self-defense class have begun meeting again on Monday afternoons.  Doreen h as 
arranged for the class to demonstrate their techniq ues at the Montachusett Home Care Expo on May 19, 2 011 at 
the Leominster Elks.  They will be the “featured” l unch time program. 
Doreen would also like to take the class to the MCO A Fall Conference and is writing a program proposal  to 
request inclusion at the conference.  She also informed the board that the Lunenburg Chief of Police,  
Dan Bourgeois, will be writing a letter to MCOA requesting that the Grey Belts be nominated for the Innovative 
Program award which is given out each year at the conference. 
 
Old Business: 
 
 
Parking Lot:  There has been no word received as of this meeting on whether or not the grant for the parking lot 
has been approved or not. 
 
State Ethics Test:   COA board members have begun taking and completing the required “State Ethics Test”.  
Proof of completion pages are being sent to the Town Clerk and the COA will be keeping a copy in the office 
files. 
 
Article for Van Revolving Account:  Doreen reported that she and Deb Seeley met with the Lunenburg Finance 
Committee and that they had numerous questions about the sustainability of the proposed van revolving 
account.   
Doreen and Pete Lincoln also went before the Board of Selectmen at their May 3 
rd  meeting to answer their 
questions. 
After thorough questioning by both boards, it was decided to pass over this article at town meeting because the 
dilemma of how to fund the new van is still in negotiations. 
 
Doreen had written this grant for a second van, and submitted it to Joann Champa from the Department of 
Transportation back in December.  Ms. Champa assured Doreen that the van was to belong solely to the Town 
of Lunenburg. 
MART (Montachusett Area Regional Transit) sent a letter in March 2011 confirming that the grant had been 
awarded to Lunenburg and that the van will be delivered sometime in late May or June.   
On May 12, 2011, a letter was received from MART informing Doreen that they wanted the new van drivers 
salary and gasoline fully funded by the Town of Lunenburg and that they would be assessing a 45% surcharge 
to the town for insurance and maintenance.  They also informed her that if this was not done, then MART will 
take sole ownership of the new van, take back the current van which is being used by the senior center, and will 
let Lunenburg use the new one in place of the old van, business as usual. 
MART had also sent similar letters to the Templeton and Littleton COA’s, who also applied for and received 
this grant. 
Doreen contacted Joann Champa from the Department of Transportation to voice her displeasure over the 
second letter received from MART with the changes.  As of this meeting nothing has been resolved with this 
situation. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Bylaw Changes:  A motion was made and seconded to accept the Council on Aging Bylaw changes as presented 
by the Council on Aging Bylaw subcommittee.  All approved, motion carried. 
A copy of the changes will be sent to the Town Clerk. 
 
Volunteer Appreciation Day: Doreen told the board that a date for the COA BBQ/Volunteer Recognition 
Ceremony will be set after staff vacation times have been established and that she would like to see all of the 
COA board members attend. 
 
===PAGE 3===
New Hours of Operation:   Doreen informed the board that the Eagle House Se nior Center will have new hours 
of operation beginning July 1, 2011.  She said that  we are now serving two generations of elders and s taying 
open later once a week would be beneficial to the y ounger elders.  Monday, Wednesday, & Thursday will 
remain 8AM-4PM.  Tuesday’s hours will be 8AM-6:30PM  and Friday will be 8AM-12:30PM.  The COA board 
supported this change. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
   
 
Joyce Wass presented the slate of officers for FY12  and they are as follows:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperso n and 
Mary Lynn Conrad Vice-Chairperson.  This will be voted on at the COA Annual meeting in June. 
 
The Advocacy Subcommittee will meet on May 17, 2011 at 9AM at the Eagle House Senior Center. 
 
Correspondence: 
  There was no correspondence to be read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
    
 
Pete Lincoln told that board that Lunenburg’s Bosto n Post Cane holder, Ruth Green, was invited to thro w out 
the first pitch at the Red Sox game last week. 
 
Jane Doyle suggested that the new intern who will b e coming from Fitchburg State University be educate d in 
CPR and Defibrillator operation. 
 
Doreen said that she hoped to see everyone at the Senior Citizen Prom on May 18, 2011 at 4PM. 
 
Upcoming Events 
:  See attached agenda. 
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.   
All approved, and the motion was carried.    
 
Meeting adjourned at 11:02AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  