===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at 11/8/11 COA Meeting 
October 11, 2011 
 
Present : Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chair), Doreen Noble (Director), Fred Crellin,   
Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley, Joyce Wass, and Susan Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: 
  Sandy Flanagan, Jane Doyle, & Barbara Brown 
 
Guest:
  Lloyd Carlson, President Friends of the Eagle House Inc.  
 
Welcome 
:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, called the meeting to order at 9:30 a.m.  
 
Minutes: 
  A motion was made and seconded to accept the September 13, 2011 COA meeting  
minutes as presented.   All approved, motion carried. 
 
The board gave “kudos” to Sue Doherty for the accur ate manner in which the monthly meeting minutes are prepared. 
 
Director’s Report: 
  
 
Finance/Informational Report :   
 
A monthly financial report was distributed to board  members for review.  Doreen explained that there i s a $0 balance in 
the Ikon line because the Friends of the Eagle Hous e Inc. have agreed to pay the yearly maintenance fe e of the copy 
machine. 
 
The COA board was updated on building issues at the  Eagle House.  The holes in the sprinkler system ha ve not been 
repaired yet.  The Eagle House will need to be closed for approximately two days in order to do the repairs. 
 
Doreen is still working with the Town Manager, Kerry Speidel, on getting extra janitorial help at the senior center. 
 
A temporary van driver, Al Sinclair, has been hired by the town of Lunenburg as an “on call” driver fo r the MART senior 
van. 
 
Doreen personally thanked all the board members for volunteering to feed the volunteers at the September  
Volunteer BBQ.  
 
The Five-Year Capitol Plan request has been turned in to Capitol Planning which includes the following : two new 
refrigerators, one oven, one gas range, one steam t able, six new banquet tables, carpeting, tiles for the old room, loam 
removal from the septic mound and stairs to connect the upper and lower parking lot. 
 
The MCOA Conference was held in Sturbridge and ran from October 5 
th  through October 7 th .  Doreen had attended and 
her “Grey Belts Senior Self Defense” class (Nana Ni njas) was a featured program there.  Lunenburg seniors  
Marion J. Brandt, Sue Cioffi and Dot St. Jean parti cipated in the program along with instructor Office r Mike Luth from 
the Lunenburg Police Department.  The program was a great success and received praise from all who attended. 
Lunenburg was nominated for three awards at the conference but, unfortunately did not receive any of them.   
The nominations can be considered for the next thre e years and Doreen hopes that the self defense clas s will eventually 
receive one. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Old Business:
 
===PAGE 2===
 
Parking Lot:   Pete Lincoln had written to the Town Manager, Kerry Speidel, approximately one month ago about the 
parking lot situation and has not had a reply from her yet.  He feels frustrated that there seems to be a lot of talking done 
about this issue and nothing ever gets done. 
Doreen stated that Ms. Speidel had called a Department Head meeting with all concerned parties on the parking issue, and 
that all parking problems in the center of town were discussed including the Eagle House parking lot.  Although there are 
no solutions to any of the Eagle House/town parking problems, they are actively pursuing solutions to all. 
Lloyd Carlson informed the board that he has been researching metal stair cases as a solution to connecting the upper and 
lower parking lots and that the Friends of the Eagle House will fund this project. 
After much discussion the COA board felt that the best way to pursue connecting the two parking lots was to speak with 
the Building Inspector and Selectmen and let them know that the Friends of the Eagle House would be donating the 
staircase to the town and ask what the procedure would be to make this happen. 
 
New Van Update:   An email from MART representative Adam Gromelski was sent to Doreen on September 15, 2011 
stating that paperwork for turning the “old” van ov er to the town of Lunenburg would need to be completed before 
delivery of the van.   
After contemplating the dilapidated condition of the old van, the amount of times it has broken down, number of miles on 
the engine, etc.. Doreen thought it best to not accept the older van for the town of Lunenburg from MART. 
 
A motion was made and seconded to not accept delivery of the older van from MART, so as not to incur any future 
financial burdens to the Town of Lunenburg.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
New Business: 
   
 
Summary and Updates MCOA Conference:   Discussed under Director’s report. 
 
Sub Committee Reports: 
  COA board member Jim Hays was anxious to begin CO A Finance Committee meetings 
concerning the FY13 budget.  This cannot be done un til the Town Manager has made requests from departm ents for 
upcoming budgets. 
 
Correspondence: 
  There was no correspondence to be read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion: 
   Friendly Senior Fair will be on Saturday October 15 th  at the Eagle House.   
 
Adjournment: 
 A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.    
 Meeting adjourned at 11:00AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted, 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant  