===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes       Minutes Approved at 9/11/12 COA Meeting  
August 14, 2012  
 
Present: Peter Lincoln, (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara Brown, Deb Seeley, Fred Crellin, 
Sis Montuori, Joyce Wass, and Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: Mary Lynn Conrad (Chairperson) & Jane Doyle 
 
Absent:   Jim Hays 
 
Guests:  Lloyd Carlson (President Friends of the Eagle House Inc.) & Steve Raboin (Lunenburg Finance 
Committee member) 
  
Welcome:   Pete Lincoln (Vice-Chairperson) opened the meeting at 9:30AM 
 
Ms. Noble informed the board that there was a staffing issue this morning and that the meeting may need to be 
interrupted to tend to the public. 
 
Minutes:   Sis Montuori motioned to accept the minutes of the June 12, 2012 Annual COA Meeting.  Barbara 
Brown seconded.  All approved, motion carried. 
  
Director's Report    
 
Finance/Informational Report: The Financial Report was presented to the COA board.  Ms. Noble informed 
the board that the Town Manager was pleased with the budget process at the COA.  She went on to report that 
everything was “online” and that a conscious effort was being made to be conservative with the utilities in the 
building. 
 
Ms. Noble reported that the COA van driver Hoyt “Bill” Anderson will be leaving at the end of August.  Gerry 
Beloin will be filling in for the extra days on a temporary basis and an “on call” driver will be advertised for.  She 
also reported that due to the new Friday closure, van scheduling is being “re-routed” to other days by Sue 
Doherty. 
 
Mr. Raboin questioned the van driver’s role.  Ms. Noble informed him of their job description and how the 
Montachusett Area Regional Transit Authority (MART) operates with the Town of Lunenburg. 
 
Ms. Seeley asked about the Friday closure and how it was progressing.  Ms. Noble replied that all programs 
have been rescheduled to different days with the exception of the Hit or Miss Bakery which needed to be 
cancelled all together.  Home bound clients on the Meals on Wheels (MOW) program are now receiving a 
frozen microwaveable meal on Thursday to make up for Fridays meal.  The answering message on the Eagle 
House phone system needs to be changed but unfortunately it cannot be done “in house” and there is a charge 
to go through the phone company each time a change is made to the official phone greeting so currently 
clients still hear that we are open on Fridays.  Ms. Noble will be researching another phone system with the 
assistance of the IT Director for the town. 
 
Ms. Noble reported that $10K was approved through Capitol Planning to replace the oven, refrigerator and 
steam table in the main kitchen at the center. 
  
Old Business  
 
Recreation Area Behind Eagle House:   Pete Lincoln informed the board that he has been in contact with 
Steve Powell of Powell Stone & Gravel and they are interested in helping out with installing a recreation area 
behind the Eagle House.  He said that he should have design plans formulated by next spring for the area.  
 
 
===PAGE 2===
COA BBQ/Volunteer Recognition Ceremony 8/22/12:  Board members were reminded about the upcoming 
COA BBQ/Volunteer Recognition Ceremony being held on 8/22/12.  The local press will be contacted to cover 
the event.  
 
Lunenburg Relief Day:  Ms. Noble reported that along with herself, Pete & Deb Lincoln were also present to 
collect funds for the COA at the Lunenburg Relief Day which was held on 7/18/12 at the Library.  Donations 
collected totaled approximately $5K which is short of the $12K budget cut.  These funds are being placed in 
the COA Revolving Gift Fund through the Town.  Ms. Noble had spoken with the Town Manager who 
suggested that the monies be placed into programming but would like the COA board’s input on how the 
money should be spent.   
 
Ms. Noble stated that she thought that re-opening on Fridays for a short period of time is confusing to the 
elders.  She is researching new programming such as a Handyman Program or perhaps using the van on 
Sundays to take elders to church. 
 
Pete Lincoln said that he was disappointed with the turn out on Relief Day and that the shortfall in the COA 
budget was not met.  He is concerned because he had specifically stated that any monies collected would go 
towards re-opening the senior center on Fridays and using these funds for other things is not good. 
 
Mr. Crellin questioned why the bus could be used on Sundays and not on Fridays.  Ms. Noble explained that 
she is not available on Fridays due to her commitment with the Town Manager on working on Personnel 
Committee items and she could potentially remain “on call” on Sundays from home. 
 
Ms. Seeley mentioned that with the $5K collected it would only amount to approximately $125. available to be 
spent on opening on Fridays and that there was only 10 months left in FY13. 
 
Pete Lincoln stated that he did not want to give up on the idea of opening on Fridays and is hoping that more 
donations will be forthcoming.   He would like to see acknowledgment letters sent out to all who donated. 
 
Ms. Noble said that she must follow a hard planning perspective for FY14 and that she cannot base an 
operating budget on what may or may not come in via donations from the Relief Fund. 
 
After much discussion among the board members about the Relief Fund, it was decided that whatever the final 
decision was of how the money is going to be used, it should disclosed in a letter to the donors.  It is believed 
that even with the Relief Fund the situation will not get any better in the years to come. 
 
Mr. Raboin spoke and said that he agrees that the situation would not be getting better but believes that the 
cuts to the COA and Library budgets were used as a “scare tactic” in order to pass the proposed override, 
which failed at Town Meeting in May.  He thinks that it may be a possibility that funding could be restored in 
FY14 and that the COA should push to have it restored. 
 
Discussion began pertaining to budget cuts in the town/government and how the monies are allocated within. 
 
Ms. Montouri requested that the discussion of the Relief Fund day and budget cuts be discontinued and move 
onto the next agenda item. 
 
New Business: 
 
FY13 Formula Grant: Ms. Noble reported that the FY13 Formula Grant has been completed and submitted to 
the Town Manager for her signature.  There was an increase in the Formula Grant which will amount to $7 per 
elder in the town.  She explained that Formula Grant monies are used for MOW mileage reimbursement, 
Outreach salary, MCOA Conference fees and dues.  She stated that she now travels to Boston once a month 
to serve on the MCOA Executive Board and monies from the grant cover travel expenses for this.   
 
Ms. Noble would like to submit a proposal in the Formula Grant to cover the cost of having a walkway, ramp or 
stairs installed between the upper parking lot and lower lot at the senior center.  Not only will she contact John 
===PAGE 3===
Londa, Facilities Director for Lunenburg Schools and Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director regarding planning for 
this project but she will also contact Monty Tech High School to see if there could be some assistance with 
construction from the students. 
 
The Executive Office of Elder Affairs Annual report is due at the end of this month.  This year’s report will be a 
combination of data compiled from the previously used STAR tracking system and the new MySeniorCenter 
software. 
  
Sub-committee Report:  Finance, Board Development, Advocacy, Bylaw,  
Director’s Evaluation:   The end of the year Director’s Evaluation report was submitted and accepted by the 
board with a unanimous vote. 
 
Ms. Noble thanked the COA board for their exhaustive efforts on preparing the Director’s Evaluation and stated 
that this will be a good working tool for her.  She stated that since the town does not have a Human Resource 
person, the Town Manager has asked her to continue working on re-writing job descriptions with the Personnel 
Board and that the Director’s Evaluation, which was developed by the COA, will be used in her developing of 
draft job descriptions for other departments. 
 
Pete Lincoln suggested holding off on assigning COA sub-committee positions until the September meeting.  
He stated that he will not be present at the September meeting but would like to be placed on the Board 
Development Committee. 
 
Correspondence:   None 
 
General Discussion:  Ms. Noble reported that she had been working with the Town Account to have funds 
returned to the Friends of the Eagle House Inc. which were not expended for the parking lot project.  She went 
on to say that the Friends Treasurer approached the Town Manager and asked for the money back, without 
consulting with her first.  Ms. Noble received a phone call from the Town Manager who was concerned that 
plan of returning the money was not brought to her attention and asked for the details of this arrangement.  Ms. 
Noble explained the particulars to the Town Manager and the money will be returned to the Friends group. 
 
Adjournment:  Sis Montuori motioned to adjourn the meeting.  Barbara Brown seconded.                              
All approved, motion carried. 
Meeting Adjourned at 10:50 a.m. 
Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging                                                                                                                                                              