===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Meeting Minutes       Minutes Approved at 5/8/12 COA Meeting 
April 10, 2012 
 
Present: Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Mary Lynn Conrad (Vice Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Barbara Brown,  
Jane Doyle, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Deb Seeley,  Joyce Wass, and  Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.)  
 
Excused:   Fred Crellin 
 
Guest:  Lloyd Carlson & Jerry Greene 
 
Welcome:  Pete Lincoln, Chairperson, welcomed Mr. Carlson & Mr. Greene and called the meeting to order at 9:37 a.m.    
 
Minutes:   A motion was made and seconded to approve the min utes of the March 13, 2012 as corrected.  All appro ved, 
motion carried. 
 
Director’s Report:     
 
Finance/Informational Report:   
 
There was no written monthly financial report but the Director reported that all bills are being paid and everything is good 
at this time. 
 
Doreen reported that all of the surveys, which the State Department of Public Health had asked her to distribute to the 
people who attended the February function at the Ea gle House where people became ill, had been returne d to the State 
Agency.  According to the SDPH one person had teste d positive for the Norovirus and there were no path ogens found in 
any of the food that was served at the senior center that day. 
 
Doreen stated that there was some updating done in the main kitchen and that she had the fire extingui sher in the kitchen 
replaced with a water based extinguisher, and that there was a problem with the garbage disposal which  was replaced.  
The exhaust vent over the stove had its annual inspection done by Cochrane Ventilation Inc. and passed. 
 
Town Manager, Kerry Speidel, had requested that Dor een attend a 6 week Mass Municipal Association Supe rvisory 
Leadership Development program along with a member from the Lunenburg Police Dept. and Lunenburg Fire Dept.  The 
classes began on April 5, 2012. 
 
The Lunenburg Council on Aging will be celebrating its 45 
th  Anniversary in December.  Doreen would like the  
COA board members to plan a celebration for this ev ent.  Pete Lincoln said that he would try to compil e a list of all 
former COA members. 
 
     The Director stated that she has some concerns  with the Friends of the Eagle House Administration .  Some of these 
concerns are that the COA office has received phone  calls from bill collectors, the person who had bee n hired by the 
Friends to take care of the gardens at the Eagle Ho use has been told that they could not afford her th is year, not all of the 
Friends of the Eagle House board members have been contacted about planned meetings, and people have b een asking 
questions about donations they had made for the par king fund.  She stated that the Council on Aging is  separate from the 
Friends of the Eagle House Inc. and all these things reflect back upon the COA.   
     She was also concerned with a letter which the Friends were planning on inserting into the COA ne wsletter, which is a 
town wide mailer, stating that they were still coll ecting funds for the parking lot project and that t hey were working with 
her to seek funds for a new van.  Doreen explained again that at this time, the town is not supporting  the parking lot 
project or funding stairs to be installed between t he upper and lower parking until the plans for the school and center of 
town revamping are completed.  She also reminded th em that the Friends are not assisting her with seek ing funds for a 
new van.  Doreen commended the Friends of the Eagle  House Inc by saying that they are a wonderful orga nization and 
that Mr. Carlson is dedicated to this cause, but it  is her obligation to report to the COA board misin formation and 
oversights. 
     Lloyd Carlson spoke and said that the whole le tter which was written for the newsletter which is causing concern has 
been canned.  He said that the Friends had invested $17,500. into this project and that he was very upset.  Lloyd stated that 
they would wait to see what happens at town meeting  with funding for the parking lot and stairs.  He w as reminded that 
funding which was requested for the parking lot and  stairs was not included in the Capital Plan and wo uld not be on the 
warrant at the May Town Meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
     Pete Lincoln spoke and said that he felt that the communication with the Friends has improved ove r the years and that 
his issue has always been the removal of the septic mound.  He said that we will probably not see a parking lot installed in 
our life time but fortunately the Friends had paid to have the mound removed and that now the area can  at least be used 
for recreation.  He said that the Town Manager told  him he could have the Sheriff’s Dept. bring prison ers to remove the 
debris from the area and that Dan Proctor will be back to level two areas for a bocce court and a horseshoe pit. 
     Jim Hays recommend that any parking lot money which is received be kept in trust for the future. 
     Clarification on the parameters of both the COA and Friends of the Eagle House was asked for and will be presented at 
the next COA meeting. 
 
Celebrity Chef for the April 18 
th  luncheon will be Mickey Herrick from Mickey Shea’s Restaurant. 
 
Old Business:  
 
Parking Lot:   Discussed under Director’s report. 
 
Director’s Evaluation:   Deb Seeley requested that the Director’s Evaluati on form be voted into the minutes so that it 
could be presented to the Town Manager.  A motion w as made and seconded to accept the newly developed Director’s 
Evaluation form.  All approved, motion carried. 
 
Discussion turned to the next step of the Director’s evaluation which will be how to compile more information. 
 
FY13 COA Budget:  Doreen reported that without the proposed $2.2M ov erride there will be a 10% reduction in the 
salaries and operating expenses for the Council on Aging.  The Town Manager’s proposed cuts call for o utreach and food 
services to be reduced at the senior center which D oreen is opposed to.  Doreen would rather have a fu ll day closure on 
Fridays to save on utilities at the building.  Dore en also stated that as a Town Official she can’t ta lk to the seniors on how 
they should vote on this issue. 
 
Reminder Minutes/Agenda emails:   Sue Doherty reminded the board that all minutes a nd agendas need to be emailed to 
her in order to be sent to the Town Clerk after app roval by the COA board.  She also suggested to the board that the 
minutes/agendas that are ready for members to appro ve, which are normally mailed through the post offi ce, be emailed to 
the members from now on.  The board agreed to correspond this way. 
 
New Business:    
 
10% Reduction:  Discussed under FY13 COA Budget. 
 
Sub Committee Reports:    
 
Sub Committees were reminded again that all end of year committee reports need to be typed and emailed  to Sue 
for the Annual meeting in June. 
 
By-Law Committee:  Fred Crellin was absent for this meeting so Bylaw corrections were not presented. 
 
It was discussed that the only way to change the nu mber of members that sit on the Council on Aging bo ard 
would be by vote at town meeting. 
 
Correspondence:    No correspondence was read at this meeting. 
 
General Discussion:    None 
 
Adjournment:  A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.    
 Meeting adjourned at 10:46AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted,  
Sue Doherty, Administrative Assistant 