===PAGE 1===
  
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes                             
Minutes Approved at the 11/12/13 COA Meeting 
October 8, 2013  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Barbara B rown (Vice-Chairperson),Jane Doyle, Joyce 
Wass, Deb Seeley, Connie O’Dea, Shirley Bertone, To ny Bertone, Judy Tarbell and Sue Doherty 
(Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: Doreen Noble (Director) 
 
Absent:  Whitney Lacka 
 
Guest:  Lloyd Carlson (Supporters of Eagle House), & Karin Menard (Lunenburg Finance Committee)  
 
Welcome:  Ms. Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 10:31AM.  She welcomed and introduced 
all in attendance.  
 
Minutes:  Ms. Seeley moved to approve the minutes of the Se ptember 10, 2013 COA meeting.  Ms. 
Brown seconded.  On vote, motion carried, 9 in favor, 0 opposed. 
  
Director's Report    
1. Finance/Informational Report:  Ms. Noble was out on short term medical leave and M s. Conrad 
read a prepared report from the Director to the board.  (See attached). 
 
Old Business  
1. Recreation Area behind Eagle House: Ms. Doherty contacted Dave MacDonald for an update 
which the COA board had requested at the last meeti ng concerning the Bocci Court construction 
behind the Eagle House.  Mr. MacDonald replied via email that this had been forwarded to the Jack 
Rodriquenz, DPW Director and as of this meeting, there has been no response from Mr. Rodriquenz. 
 
2. Building Re-Use Committee:  Ms. Seeley updated the COA board on the progress of  the Building 
Re-Use Committee.  She said that the committee would like a letter from the COA board explaining why 
they feel that no change or move is needed at the E agle House.  Ms. Seeley suggested that Ms. Noble 
should prepare a letter for the next COA meeting li sting the many functions/activities that the Eagle 
House is used for, which can be passed on to the Building Re-Use Committee. 
 
3. Boston Post Cane: Tabled until the November COA meeting. 
 
4. COA Board Training 11/6/13 @ Eagle House 9:15AM:  Board members were reminded about the 
11/6/13 COA Board Training being held at the Eagle House.  Lunenburg COA board members will be 
supplying baked goods for the morning portion of the meeting.  All were encouraged to attend.   
 
New Business   
1. Eagle House Building Use: Ms. Doherty spoke to clarify the building use poli cy of the Eagle House 
Senior Center. The past practice of using the older section of the Eagle House by private businesses to 
conduct classes, have meetings, etc… was that an al arm/building key could be picked up at the Public 
Safety Building, after a room fee was paid to the T own for building use, and returned to the Public 
Safety Building the same evening.  Room rental for the newer section is a higher rate, and a janitoria l 
fee must also be paid for the opening and closing of the building due to the fact that the alarm system is 
different.   
===PAGE 2===
Unfortunately since the dispatch station at the Public Safety Building is no longer manned, this makes it 
impossible for private entities to use the older section.   
If it were a Town Committee or Board requesting use  of either section of the Eagle House, 
arrangements can be made to have a Town employee as sociated with that entity retrieve keys/alarm 
code to enter the building, after which they are re sponsible for returning the keys the next day. The 
COA does not allow a private entity access to the b uilding code or loan out the keys to people other 
than Town Employees for liability reasons. 
Recently there had been a request from an outside b usiness to use the Eagle House for a yoga class 
after hours.  The Eagle House, both rooms, can be u sed by outside agencies after hours if the person 
requesting it pays for the room usage along with a janitorial fee for opening and closing of the build ing, 
particularly if the business is a profit making enterprise. 
 
 2. COA Policies & Procedures: Ms. Doherty informed the board that upon review of the COA Policies 
& Procedures she suggested to Ms. Noble that they b e brought up to date.  This will be a lengthy 
process and Ms. Noble agreed that this is a task th at needs to be done. A copy of the current COA 
Policies & Procedures will be given to COA members for review at the next meeting. 
 
Sub-Committee Reports/Minutes – Finance, Board Deve lopment, Advocacy, Bylaw, Director’s 
Evaluation 
Ms. Brown moved to accept the 4/6/2013 Advocacy Com mittee minutes.  Ms. Doyle seconded.  On 
vote, motion carried 9 in favor, 0 opposed. 
 
Ms. Conrad mentioned that after reviewing the Advocacy Committee minutes she wanted to remind that 
committee that their charge was to advocate for eld er issues and that fundraising, although 
commendable, is not a function of the COA. 
 
1. Add New Board Members to Subcommittees: COA Board members discussed the reorganization 
of COA Subcommittees to be as follows: 
Advocacy:  Joyce Wass, Whitney Lacka, Shirley Bertone, & Tony Bertone 
Finance: Deb Seeley, Connie O’Dea, Shirley Bertone, Tony Bertone, & Judy Tarbell 
Board Development: Joyce Wass, Connie O’Dea, Judy Tarbell, & Barbara Brown 
Bylaw: Barbara Brown, Whitney Lacka, Jane Doyle, & Deb Seeley 
Director’s Evaluation:  Deb Seeley, Jane Doyle, & Barbara Brown 
 
Reminder of Subcommittee Minutes & Agenda Submittal s:   Ms. Doherty reminded all COA 
subcommittees that minutes and agendas need to be p osted in a timely manner.  A copy of the Open 
Meeting Law regarding agenda and minute postings was distributed to the board for review. 
Discussion ensued regarding subcommittee minute approvals/acceptance.  Clarifications will be sought 
from the Town Clerk regarding this issue. 
 
Ms. Brown suggested that all COA subcommittees follow a template/form for conducting their meetings, 
similar to the one she developed and uses for the Bylaw Subcommittee.   
 
Board members discussed new board member orientatio n meetings which in the past happened each 
time a new member was appointed to the COA with the  Director and the Chair.  It was discussed that 
perhaps another subcommittee should be formed to aid with this procedure.  
 
Correspondence : Ms. Conrad read a note which was sent by Ms. Nobl e to the Women’s Club 
congratulating them on their 100 th  Anniversary.  Ms. Noble was unable to attend this celebration due to 
prior commitments. 
 
===PAGE 3===
General Discussion:  There will be a free breakfast at the Eagle House  on October 30 th  from 8:30AM 
– 10:30AM. 
 
The School Building Committee will be added to the November COA agenda where they will present 
plans for the proposed new Middle/High School. 
 
Ms. Conrad and Ms. Brown both received notice that it was time to take the Conflict of Interest test 
again. 
 
Ms. O’Dea questioned if anyone had come forward fro m the COA board to voluntarily sit on the 
Montachusett Home Care Board of Director’s. 
Ms. Doherty replied that nobody had come forward. 
 
Adjournment    
Ms. Wass moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Brown seconded.   
On vote motion carried, 9 in favor 0 opposed. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:45AM 
 
Upcoming Meetings 
November 12, 2013 
December 10, 2013 
 
Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted    
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant    
Lunenburg COA Lunenburg COA Lunenburg COA Lunenburg COA  
 
               
 
 
    
    