===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes                     Minutes Approved at 5/14/2013 COA Meeting 
April 9, 2013  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Pete Lincoln (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Director),  
Barbara Brown, Fred Crellin, Jane Doyle, Jim Hays, Sis Montuori, Whitney Lacka, Connie Odea, Deb Seeley, 
Joyce Wass, and Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Welcome   
Mary Lynn Conrad (Chairperson) welcomed the new board members and opened the meeting at 9:35AM.  
 
Minutes:  Sis Montouri motioned to approve the March 12, 2013 COA minutes.  Jane Doyle seconded.  On 
vote, motion carried, 11 in favor, 0 opposed. 
  
Director's Report    
Ms. Noble reported to the board that she has a copy of the Town Accountant’s Financial Report and mentioned 
that the board could review if they wished. 
 
The Outreach payroll will now be coming strictly out of Formula Grant funds until the end of FY13.  It is 
expected that another $7400 will be transferred into the Outreach line before the end of this Fiscal year. 
 
More funds needed to be transferred into the Santa Buckley Energy line.  This is not an unusual process at this 
time of year.  Due to the harsh winter there were higher costs in heating at the senior center and hopefully next 
year we will be able to see more of a savings. 
 
The Town Manager has informed the COA Director that she will be recommending that all COA utility costs be 
transferred into a “Central Purchasing” account with the Town in FY14.  This should end the problems of 
having to transfer funds from one line to another at the end of each fiscal year. 
 
The Outreach Coordinator, Faith Anderson, is still out on medical leave and is expected back sometime in 
May.  Joanne Brazell, who works in the Meal Site on Mondays, will be filling in at this position until Faith 
returns.  Ms. Noble stated that Ms. Brazell’s office skills are excellent, that she has some prior Outreach 
experience, and has been volunteering in the senior center office for the past 3 years. 
 
The Monday/Tuesday van driver, Jim McGuigan is working out well.  
Gerry Beloin who drives on Wednesday/Thursday will be going out on a brief medical leave in May, but there is 
another back up driver that can fill his spot if need be. 
 
The Monday Meal Site offering of Soup & Sandwich is going very well.  Ms. Noble would like to open a “salad 
bar” to go along with these meals during the summer. 
 
Ms. Noble, through MCOA, has been asked to sit on the Governor’s Commission for a special interest group 
concerning Mass Equality Awareness/LBGT Aging’s Unmet Issues.  She also mentioned the film “Generation 
Silent” which brings to light awareness of “same sex” couples being discriminated against as they enter into 
nursing homes. 
 
Ms. Doyle asked if the Meal Site Manager had completed the Serve Safe/Food Safety program yet. 
 
Ms. Noble replied no but she had registered to take the course on line back in the fall, paid for it with her 
personal credit card, and presented the receipt to her at that time.  She added that this person had also asked 
if she could be the “fill in” person in Outreach while Ms. Anderson was on medical leave.  Ms. Noble informed 
the board that she needed to complete her obligation with the Serve Safe/Food Safety program first and that 
her computer skills were not quite there.  Also, she will not be reimbursed for the course until it is completed. 
 
Ms. Doyle asked if having this certification was a condition of employment for the Meal Site position. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Noble replied not at this time but it could be added to the job description if the COA would like to make a 
recommendation that the Meal Site job description be amended to read as such in FY14. 
 
Ms. Doyle moved to amend the Meal Site Manager job description, as of July 1, 2013, to include the 
requirement of obtaining the Food Service Certification certificate.  Mr. Lincoln seconded.  On vote, motion 
carried, 11 in favor, 0 opposed. 
 
Old Business  
1.  Town Finance Committee Meeting (March 21 st ):   Mary Lynn Conrad and Ms. Noble attended the Town 
Finance Committee meeting to discuss the FY14 COA b udget.  Ms. Noble reported that the meeting went we ll 
and that extra funds in the Outreach line were approved. 
 
2.  2014 Budget: Ms. Noble reported that the Town Manager has reduce d the COA FY14 recommended 
budget by$6-8k due to the fact that the all utilities will be moved to a Central Purchasing fund. 
 
Mr. Hays questioned whether or not $1200 will be in cluded in the COA budget to cover the copy machine 
maintenance contract. He mentioned the fact that the Supporters of the Eagle House have been paying for this 
in recent years. 
Ms. Noble replied yes. 
 
New Business   
1.  MCOA Board Training:  Emmett Schmarsow will be holding a COA Board Training session at the Eagle 
House on April 30, 2013.  All Lunenburg COA board members were encouraged to attend. 
 
Sub-Committee Report    
Ms. Doyle moved to accept the December 11, 2012 Advocacy Subcommittee minutes.  Ms. Seeley seconded.  
On vote, motion carried, 11 in favor, 0 opposed. 
 
Ms. Brown mentioned that she will be presenting the COA Bylaw changes at the May meeting. 
 
Correspondence    
A notice from the Town Wellness Coordinator regarding the Relay for Life was read. 
 
A notice from the American Parkinson’s Association was read regarding a Walk-A-Thon to be held on June 9 
th . 
 
The Alzheimer’s Association is seeking to train a Facilitator for a support group which could potentially be held 
at the Eagle House. 
 
General Discussion   
Ms. Noble mentioned that Ernie Sund is looking for help with the Memorial Day Committee and they will be 
meeting at the Eagle House on April 17 th  at 3:30PM. 
 
Ms. Seeley reported that while she was vacationing in Florida over the winter, she had the chance to visit other 
Senior Centers, which are called Community Centers in that area.  She noticed that they are not separating the 
generations at these centers and have various programs such as wine clubs, exercise and foreign language 
classes. 
 
Ms. Noble informed the board that the staff at the Senior Center had completed CPR/ Defibrillator training at 
the Fire Station which was run by Chief Sullivan and Fire Dept. staff member Karen Weller. 
 
The Lunenburg Fire Dept. will be running a “Friends & Family” CPR class, free of charge at the Eagle house 
Senior Center on May 22 
nd .  This will not be a certification class but will teach participants the basics of CPR. 
 
Mr. Lincoln requested that a date be set at the next meeting for the Council on Aging Volunteer Appreciation 
program. 
 
===PAGE 3===
Adjournment    
Jim Hays moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Jane Doyle seconded.  On vote motion carried, 11 in favor 0 
opposed. 
               
Meeting Adjourned at 10:30AM. 
 
Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,   Respectfully Submitted,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging Lunenburg Council on Aging                                                                                                                                                              