===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging Minutes                 
Minutes approved at the 1/14/14 COA Meeting 
December 10, 2013  
 
Present: Mary Lynn Conrad, (Chairperson), Barbara B rown (Vice-Chairperson), Doreen Noble 
(Director), Jane Doyle, Joyce Wass, Connie O’Dea, W hitney Lacka,  Shirley Bertone, Tony Bertone, 
Judy Tarbell and Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst.) 
 
Excused: Deb Seeley 
 
Welcome:  Ms. Conrad (Chairperson) opened the meeting at 10:31AM.   
 
Minutes:  Ms. Doyle requested an addition be made to the CO A November 2013 minutes.  Under 
MCOA Board training, Ms. Doyle would like added tha t Mr. Schmarsow stated that he thought that 
having the Director Certified was a good thing. 
Ms. Doyle moved to approve the minutes of the Novem ber 12, 2013 COA meeting, with the correction.  
Ms. Wass seconded.  Motion carried unanimously. 
  
Director's Report    
1. Finance/Informational Report:   
No Financial report was presented at this meeting. 
 
Ms. Noble reported that her meeting with the Capita l Planning Committee went well.  Jack Rodriquenz, 
DPW Director, had done most of the required paperwo rk for the requests for the Senior Center which 
included new flooring in the older section of the Eagle House and new carpeting in the newer section of 
the center.   
 
The Town Accountant has informed Ms. Noble that pay ments being made to Senior Citizen Property 
Tax Work-off participants are being processed incor rectly.  According to the I.R.S, participants need to 
submit W-2 forms with their earnings from this prog ram in order to have the proper deductions taken 
from them.  If this is not done, the Town of Lunenburg could be subject to fines. 
 
Ms. Noble is currently working to procure grant funding to aid in Food Stamp Enrollment for elders. 
 
MCOA (Montachusett Councils on Aging) are currently  advocating for more funding to become 
available in the FY2014 Formula Grant. 
 
Old Business  
1. Boston Post Cane:  It has been determined that Marion Pepin will be th e next recipient of the 
Boston Post Cane.  Ms. Noble will try to arrange for the awarding of the cane to be done at Ms. Pepin’s 
home at a future date to be determined. 
 
2. COA Policies & Procedures: No Report 
 
3.  Director’s Goals: Ms. Noble presented her Director’s Goals to the COA board as follows: 
•  Continue work on updating COA Policies & Procedure s 
•  Develop a Speaker Series as part of programming at  the senior center 
•  Continue to develop and improve the food service p rogram at the senior center 
•  Develop “outside” recreational programs at the sen ior center 
===PAGE 2===
•  Increase transportation hours 4-5 hours per week 
 
New Business   
1. Staff Hours:  Ms. Noble reported that she will be attempting to increase the hours for dispatch/van 
transportation in FY15.  Also increased will be kitchen staff hours through the Formula Grant. 
  
2. Budget FY15: Ms. Noble had met with the COA Finance Subcommittee  (FinCom) and presented 
them with a draft of the COA FY15 budget.  She has not yet received the FY15 budget packet from the 
Town Manager and will continue to meet with the COA FinCom until the budget process is complete. 
 
Sub-Committee Reports/Minutes – Finance, Board Deve lopment, Advocacy, Bylaw, Director’s 
Evaluation: 
Finance  – Discussed under “Budget FY15” 
 
Board Development – No Report 
 
Advocacy – No Report 
 
Bylaw – No Report 
 
Director’s Evaluation – Ms. Doyle reported that the  October 8 
th  minutes for this committee were 
approved at their 11/4/13 meeting.   
The goal of this committee is to prepare a complete  evaluation tool by 10/2014 to present to the Town 
Manager. 
 
1. Subcommittee Minutes & Agenda Submittals: Not discussed 
 
Correspondence :  None 
 
General Discussion:   A discussion was held in regard to sub-committees  and the redundancy of 
approving, accepting, and presenting minutes to and  by the COA board.  The consensus was that it is 
probably best to have most business previously disc ussed with in committee meetings held within the 
regularly scheduled COA monthly meeting.  Exception s will occur and committees will meet as per the 
nature and importance of the issue. 
 
Adjournment    
Ms. O’Dea moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Lacka seconded.   
On vote motion carried, 9 in favor 0 opposed. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:45AM  
 
Upcoming Meeting 
January 14, 2014 
 
Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted Respectfully Submitted    
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant    
Doreen C. Noble, Director Doreen C. Noble, Director Doreen C. Noble, Director Doreen C. Noble, Director    
Lunenburg COA Lunenburg COA Lunenburg COA Lunenburg COA               
 
 
===PAGE 3===
    