===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging        Minutes Approved at 1/13/2015 COA Meeting       
Meeting Minutes                  
December 16, 2014  
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:30AM. 
 
Present:   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Deb Seeley (Vice-Chai rperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Debbie 
Lincoln, Betty DiGiacomo, Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd, Cheryl Moisan, Brian Guenard, & Sue Doherty (Admin.  
Asst). 
 
Members not present were Jacquelyn Dwyer, Kevin McNally, & Judy Tarbell. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  None 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   Ms. Seeley moved to accept the November 18, 2014 Council on Aging (COA) 
minutes.  Ms. Grant seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Director’s Report:  Ms. Noble reported on the following: 
Volunteers are again willing to build a shuffle boa rd court behind the senior center but need letters of 
support from the Director and the Eagle House Supporters Inc. in order to procure donations for the project 
from local businesses.  Ms. Noble reminded the boar d that the COA, as a Town department, is not able t o 
fundraise but she has drafted a letter of support f rom herself. Ms. Doherty, by request of Mr. Lincoln ,  
drafted a letter of support for the Eagle House Supporters Inc. to review and sign. 
 
Ms. Noble informed the board that she will be takin g vacation time beginning on 12/22/2014 and returni ng 
on 1/5/2015. 
 
The FY14 Formula Grant contract has been received f or the amount of $16,800 and the Town Manager 
has signed it.  These monies are primarily used for  part of the Outreach salary and Meals on Wheels 
mileage reimbursement. 
 
There have been 3 applications submitted for the po sition of Food Service Coordinator and they are 
currently being reviewed. 
 
The Council on Aging Outreach Coordinator, Faith Anderson, will be returning from extended medical leave 
the first week in January.  The temporary Outreach Coordinator, Jeanne Tatro, will finish on 1/4/2015. 
 
The Lunenburg Friendly Seniors have made a donation of $1000 to the Eagle House Supporters Inc. 
 
Ms. Noble will be attending the joint meeting of th e Board of Selectmen/Finance Committee this evening .  
The COA FY16 budget packet should be received by th e end of the week and the Town Manager has 
requested that the department budgets be completed and returned by 1/16/2015. 
Ms. Noble would like to include the position of Pro gram Coordinator at a rate of $16 per hour (non-ben efit) 
into the FY16 COA budget.  This position would take  some of the Director’s responsibilities over such as 
overseeing Property Tax Work Off participants and program planning. 
Ms. Noble would like to re-focus more of the Outreach responsibilities on new “Client Findings”. 
 
Ms. Noble informed the board that as of this meeting, 49.9% of the COA FY15 budget has been used.  The 
FY16 fiscal year will begin on July 1 
st .  She will have a full budget report prepared for the board at the 
January COA meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
Task Groups (suggestions): Due to board member absences at this meeting it was decided to hold off on 
selecting spokes people for the COA task groups.  Board members on each group are as follows: 
•  Advocacy (charge of task group is to deal with elder issues within Lunenburg)   
Diane Nowd  Jacquelyn  Dwyer  Deb Seeley 
  
•  Communication  (charge of task group is to deal with how the staff, board members and senior center 
participants communicate with each other .)  
Debbie Lincoln Kevin McNally 
 
•  Public Relations –  (charge of task group is to further investigate how to reach a broader audience )  
Betty DiGiacamo Sarah Grant  Cheryl  Moisan Judy Ta rbell  Brian Guenard 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  None 
 
BOARD COMMENT:   Mr. Lincoln reminded the Director that he would l ike to have State Representative 
Jennifer Benson attend a COA meeting to discuss legislature involving elder issues. 
 
Ms. Seeley informed the board that she will not be able to attend the January, February, and March COA  
meetings. 
 
Ms. Noble reminded the board to keep in mind  the O pen Meeting Laws in regards to how the individual T ask 
Groups conduct themselves. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT  None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business, Mr. Guenard moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. DiGiacomo seconded.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned at 10:24AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
January 13, 2015  
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant 
Lunenburg Council on Aging 
    