===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging       
Minutes Approved at the 11/18/2014 COA Meeting       
Meeting Minutes                  
October 14, 2014  
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to or der at 9:28AM. 
 
Present:   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Deb Seeley (Vice-Chai rperson), Doreen Noble (Director), Judy Tarbell,  
Debbie Lincoln, Betty DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally & Su e Doherty (Admin. Asst.)  
 
Excused:  Jacquelyn Dwyer, Sarah Grant & Diane Nowd 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  
     1. November meeting date change (due to holiday) to 11 /18/2014 : All Lunenburg Town Departments will be closed       
         on Tuesday 11/11/2014 due to the Veteran’s Day Holiday.  The COA meeting has been rescheduled  to 11/18/2014. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. COA General Orientation/Discussion: Board members discussed the fact that although the COA has term limits 
within their COA Policies, they do not exist in the  Town’s Charter or Bylaw and therefore do not apply .  All 
appointed board members are subject to a 3 year ter m.  When an incumbent’s term is nearing the end, th ey will 
receive a re-appointment form from the Board of Sel ectmen to fill out and return if they wish to be re -appointed for 
another term. 
 
2. COA Member Resignation: Mr. Lincoln mentioned that Jennifer Ayers has sent a letter of resignation to the 
Board of Selectmen.  Ms. Ayers has resigned due to COA meeting schedule conflicts. 
 
3. COA Member Recommendation:  Mr. Lincoln mentioned that he has recommended to t he Board of Selectmen 
that Brian Guenard be considered for appointment to the COA. 
 
4. Outreach Update/Introduction Jeanne Tatro Temporary  Outreach Worker: The Outreach Coordinator, Faith 
Anderson is still out on medical leave.  Jeanne Tat ro has been hired temporarily to replace Ms. Anders on from 
October 1 st  to November 30 th .  If need be, the position will be reviewed again after the November 30 th  date.  Due 
to a prior commitment Ms. Tatro was unable to attend today’s meeting. 
 
5. Director's Report : Ms. Noble gave the Director’s Report which included the following: 
•  Changes will be made to the food service program a t the senior center due to staffing shortages   
•  An ad has been placed to hire another food service  coordinator for the center along with an “on call”  van 
driver 
•  Ms. Noble attended the MCOA Conference and attende d many seminars including updates to Medicare, 
Hoarding and Tips for Elder Caregivers 
•  Ms. Noble mentioned the fact that COA’s service “4 0 years” of the Town’s population and would like the 
COA to consider dropping the words “Senior Center” from “Eagle House Senior Center”, and just be 
called “The Eagle House” 
Discussion ensued concerning Ms. Noble pursuing her Director’s Certification.  Ms. Noble stated that this would be a 2-3 
year process which would take her away from her dut ies as Director at the senior center.  She stated that out of 340 COA 
Directors in the State of Massachusetts  only 40 are certified.  Ms. Noble believes that the Director’s Certification is 
beneficial to younger Directors but not to those who have been serving in this capacity for a long period of time and are 
close to retirement.  Ms. Noble requested that the COA reconsider her taking this certification course and that she had 
been penalized in her last Director’s Evaluation for not being certified. 
After due and diligent discussion among the board m embers it was determined that the requirement of Director’s 
Certification was not a part of the job description when Ms. Noble was hired and that this should be d ropped from the 
Director’s Goals.  This will be an agenda item at the next COA meeting to be voted on. 
===PAGE 2===
 
  
6. Boston Post Cane Ceremony – October 14 th  3PM- Eagle House Senior Center: The Boston Post Cane will be 
given to Marion Pepin this afternoon at the Eagle House.  This day is also Ms. Pepin’s 100 th  Birthday. 
 
7. Task Groups (suggestions): Board members discussed the roles of individual task groups as follows: 
•  Advocacy – Advocacy group deals with elder issues within Lunenburg 
•  Communication  – Communication group should deal with how the sta ff, board members and senior 
center participants communicate amongst each other. 
•  Public Relations – Although the office staff does a good job promoting  programs at the senior center, 
further investigation should be done on how to reach a broader audience.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   Ms. Lincoln moved to accept the August 12, 2014 C OA minutes.  Ms. Seeley seconded.  
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:   Upcoming Eagle House events which had been publis hed in the COA Newsletter 
were discussed. 
 
BOARD COMMENT:   Mr. Lincoln reminded Ms. Noble that he would like  for her to invite Representative Benson to a 
future COA meeting.  Ms. Noble had previously conta cted Ms. Benson’s office and she was unable to atte nd today’s 
meeting.   
 
Ms. Seeley mentioned she had a conversation with a senior bus trip coordinator and asked the Director how she is 
affiliated with the COA.  Ms. Noble stated that she  is an independent trip coordinator who is allowed to keep flyers at the 
Eagle House for interested parties.  Other trip coo rdinators are also given the opportunity to distrib ute flyers at the Eagle 
House under the Director’s discretion.  Ms. Noble a lso mentioned that she had received two calls from other neighboring 
COA’s who were concerned that this particular trip coordinator was using the Lunenburg COA’s name to p romote 
activities.   
The board would like to publically clarify the COA’s involvement with any trips as follows: 
A. The COA does not sponsor trips. 
B. The COA is not liable for any issues which may o ccur on any trips. 
C. If trips are advertised there should be a discla imer notice exonerating the COA from any trip activ ities. 
D. The person running trips should not use the COA name in any promotions or affiliate herself with th e COA in any 
way, shape or form. 
 
Board members discussed inviting a representative f rom both the Supporters of the Eagle House and the Friendly Seniors 
to attend the monthly COA meeting. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT  None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business, Ms. D’Giacomo moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Tarbell seconded.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously 
Meeting adjourned at 10:45AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
November 18, 2014  
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant 
Lunenburg Council on Aging 
    