===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging       Minutes Approved at the 3/10/2015 COA Meeting    
Meeting Minutes                  
February 10, 2015  
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:45AM. 
 
Present:   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Directo r), Debbie Lincoln, Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd,  
Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Jacquelyn Dwyer & Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst). 
 
Not present were Deb Seeley (Vice Chair), Cheryl Moisan, Brian Guenard, & Betty DiGiacomo. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Mr. Lincoln announced that the Board of Selectmen will be rescheduling their planned 
Board & Committee Volunteer Appreciation function a nd encouraged Council on Aging (COA) board members 
to attend. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   Ms. Lincoln moved to accept the January 13, 2015 Council on Aging minutes.   
Ms. Tarbell seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
*Ms. Nowd made note that the January minutes reflec ted that the Advocacy Task Group will investigate d eveloping a 
Facebook page when in fact it should say Public Relations Task Group will be doing this. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Director’s Report:   
•  Ms. Noble informed the board that the FY16 budget has been sent to the Town Manager, is unbalanced 
and funding sources are still being reviewed for th is year and the next.  The Director will present th e 
FY16 budget to the COA board upon completion. 
 
•  Ms. Noble explained the procedure for determining whether or not the Lunenburg shelter would be 
open in case of emergency.  According to Fire Chief  Sullivan, the shelter would not be opened unless 
there are severe heat and electrical issues.  The s helter would be staffed by COA staff and other Town  
employees. 
COA board members all volunteered to help out in shelter situations. 
 
•  Senior Citizen Property Tax Work Off Program is st ill suffering setbacks due to the fact that the IRS  
(Internal Revenue Service) want to tax the particip ants which will make them employees of the Town, 
and they will need to file W2 forms.  This will aff ect some participants who are considered “poverty 
level” services such as food stamps and fuel assist ance. Currently there are 17 slots with 9 applicant s, 
5 of which have started the program. 
 
•  A new “direct line” phone service at the senior ce nter has gone into effect today.  This will elimina te 
miscommunication within the senior center.  MART (M ontachusett Area Regional Transit) also requires 
that the only person to communicate with van clients and drivers will be the dispatcher. 
 
•  Ms. Noble commented to say that the COA’s idea of an Eagle House Facebook page is an excellent 
idea.  She also mentioned that although she did not  want to offend anyone, she does not accept 
personal “friend” requests from elected or appointed officials on her personal page. 
Ms. Dwyer will work on creating the Facebook page with assistance from the Director.  
 
•  The Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lion’s Club Panca ke Breakfast scheduled for tomorrow has been 
cancelled due to lack of parking because of the recent storm. 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
2. Eagle House Closing due to Inclement Weather 
The procedure for Eagle House closure due to inclem ent weather is that if the schools are closed, then  the 
center will also be closed with no activities, meals or transportation.   
There had been a complaint filed at Town Hall that the Eagle House was closed on Tuesday February 3 
rd  and 
the person was upset that he could not get his lunc h that day.  Ms. Noble explained that MOC Nutrition  
(Montachusett Opportunity Council) had cancelled lunch and the reason for closing when schools are closed is 
to keep elders off of the road for safety reasons and to allow for the DPW to clean up. 
Ms. Doherty had gone into the office briefly that d ay and was concerned with a frail client who had be en 
outside shoveling and was out of breath.  Ms. Doher ty reported this to the Director via a phone call a nd then 
stopped by the client’s house to speak with her. Th e client answered the door and told her she was fin e, then 
Ms. Doherty reported this back to the Director. The  Director followed up with a phone call later on to  the client 
who assured her she was fine and refused medical treatment. 
Ms. Noble had explained to the Town Manager that al l senior center transportation and meals on wheels 
clients had been contacted via telephone for wellness checks and informed her of the incident.   
Although the Town Manager agreed that elders should  be kept off of the road during these situations, s he 
requested that the senior center remain closed to t he public, but be staffed, on “snow days” to handle  
emergency situations. 
After due diligent discussion the board decided to speak with the Town Manager about the COA closing policy.  
The belief is that if elder clients know that the b uilding is staffed, they will not abide by the clos ing policy and 
therefore will become a hindrance to the snow/ice removal process. 
 
3. Wish List for submission to Supporters of Eagle House Inc.  
COA board members briefly discussed what items they  would like to request to the Supporters for purcha se.  
Examples of items were: 
/checkbld Decaffeinated coffee (determined that this is alre ady available and paid for by the Supporters) 
/checkbld Benches for the recreational area 
/checkbld Shed to store wheel barrel and recreational equipm ent 
/checkbld Arborvitae trees or possibly a fence to define pro perty lines  
/checkbld New senior van (determined that this request does not qualify as an appropriate request for the 
Supporters) 
 
4. Filming/Photo Waivers  
Mr. Lincoln informed the board that he is involved in local cable T.V. programming and he would like to develop 
a show about the senior center and the daily activities that go on there.  Currently there is no policy concerning 
filming/photos of the clients.  It was determined that in the future if there were to be any filming/photos taken at 
the senior center a general announcement would be made to the clients about it. 
 
5. Eagle House Senior Center Handbook 
Board members discussed the possibility of developi ng a small handbook concerning the services/activit ies 
that are rendered by the senior center.  This would  be in addition to the newsletter which is publishe d on a 
monthly basis. 
 
2.  Task Groups (suggestions):  
•  Advocacy (charge of task group is to deal with elder issues within Lunenburg)   
Ms. Nowd will contact Representative Benson’s office in regards to making an appointment to discuss 
elder issues with her at her convenience.  
 
•• ••  Communication  (charge of task group is to deal with how the staff, board members and senior center 
participants communicate with each other .)  
The Communication Task Group will contact the Town Manager later today regarding the snow closure 
policy. 
 
•• ••  Public Relations –  (charge of task group is to further investigate how to reach a broader audience)  
No report 
 
===PAGE 3===
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  None 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Board members discussed the possibility of holdin g an open house after closing hours 
at the senior center.  The purpose would be to attr act more people who do not visit the center during the day 
and are not aware of what activities are held at th e senior center. This would also serve to educate t he public 
on what the function of the COA is.  It is hoped that a summer date can be set for this function so it can be held 
outside as well as inside. 
 
Mr. Lincoln mentioned that the Lunenburg Ledger had  included under Eagle House Events, senior bus trip  
information, which is being run by a private individual.  Mr. Lincoln contacted the individual along with the editor 
of the newspaper to make certain that this will not  happen again.  The Council on Aging currently does  not 
have a trip coordinator nor do they endorse the person whose information was published in the paper. 
 
Ms. Noble informed the board that the “hang up” phone calls that were occurring in December have ceased. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT  None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business, Ms. Lincoln moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Dwyer seconded.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned at 11:24AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
March 10, 2015  
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant 
Lunenburg Council on Aging 
    