===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging         Minutes approved at 2/10/15 COA Meeting 
Meeting Minutes                  
January 13, 2015  
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:25AM. 
 
Present:   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Debbie Lincoln, Betty  DiGiacomo, Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd, Cheryl 
Moisan, Brian Guenard, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Jacquelyn Dwyer & Sue Doherty (Admin. Asst). 
 
Not present were Deb Seeley (Vice Chair) & Doreen Noble (Director). 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Mr. Lincoln announced that in the event of the abs ence of both the Chair and the Vice 
Chair, Judy Tarbell will Chair the Council on Aging (COA) meeting. 
 
Mr. Lincoln thanked the board for supplying goodies  for the December COA meeting.  He also mentioned t hat 
the COA Holiday Open House was a wonderful event and the Harpist was very good. 
 
Mr. Lincoln mentioned that he had received word tha t State Rep. Jen Benson has regularly scheduled 
meetings on Tuesday mornings which would make it di fficult for her to attend a COA meeting.  His hope is to 
discuss Formula Grant monies along with other senior citizen issues. 
Board members discussed the possibility of rescheduling a COA meeting to a later time but no date was set for 
this meeting. 
 
Outreach Coordinator, Faith Anderson, has returned to work and Mr. Lincoln gave kudos to Jeanne Tatro for 
her temporary services in Ms. Anderson’s absence. 
 
Mr. Lincoln stated that letters of support for the proposed shuffle board court at the senior center h ave been 
sent to Dave MacDonald and it is hoped that work can begin on this new project in the spring. 
Board members also discussed putting together a “wi sh list” to be submitted to the Eagle House Support ers 
Inc. which would include purchasing benches for the bocce/shuffle board courts at the senior center.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   Ms. Lincoln moved to accept the December 16, 2014  Council on Aging (COA) 
minutes.  Ms. Tarbell seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Ms. Lincoln questioned what the Friendly Senior don ation was for, which was mentioned in the December 
minutes. 
Ms. Doherty explained that the Friendly Seniors, wh o are a social group, meet once a month during regu lar 
operating hours at the Eagle House, so no other COA  programming is scheduled during that time.  In 
appreciation for doing this for them, the Friendly Seniors have been giving a yearly donation to the E agle 
House Supporters Inc. (COA’s 501c fundraising group) to be used towards programming and other activities at 
the Eagle House which are not covered in the COA Town budget. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
•• ••  Director’s Report:  Ms. Noble had previously prepared a Director’s rep ort that was distributed to the 
board for review which included the following: 
•  The Lunenburg Property Tax Work Off Program has en countered problems due to IRS 
regulations.  There is now a large amount of paper work that now needs to be completed by 
participants and they will be taxed on their work o ff.  The Town will be issuing W2 forms at 
the end of the year for the amount of money that is  being deducted for property tax.  People 
will be taxed twice (2014 & 2015) in this upcoming tax year.  The concern is that the 
reporting of wages may affect people who are collec ting assistance like Food Stamps or 
Fuel Assistance.  Placement of participants has been postponed until later in January. 
===PAGE 2===
•  Faith Anderson has returned to work after an exten ded medical leave.  She is currently 
working on developing a larger base of volunteers a nd will bring back the lunch bunch 
program in the spring.  The Dine Around club has been discontinued. 
•  The Food Service Coordinator position on Wednesday s & Thursdays has been filled by 
Jeanne Tatro, and she will be taking the Serve Safe  exam in March.  It is hoped that the 
salad bar will be returning on Thursdays in April. 
•  While out this week, Ms. Noble will be working on the FY16 budget, which is due on 1/16/15.  
Her budget will reflect a request for funding that exceeds the Town Manager’s 
recommended budget.  Ms. Noble will give a budget presentation at the next COA meeting. 
 
2.  Task Groups (suggestions): Due to the abundance of people on the Public Relati ons task group, Judy 
Tarbell volunteered to leave the Public Relations a nd join the Communication task group.  Board member s 
discussed assigning “Point People” to each task group as follows: 
 
•  Advocacy 
(charge of task group is to deal with elder issues within Lunenburg)   
Deb Seeley (Diane Nowd will serve as point person in Ms. Seeley’s absence) 
  
•• ••  Communication  (charge of task group is to deal with how the staff, board members and senior center 
participants communicate with each other .)  
Debbie Lincoln 
 
•• ••  Public Relations –  (charge of task group is to further investigate how to reach a broader audience )  
Brian Guenard 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  None 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Ms. Moisan informed the board that she will not b e in attendance at the February COA 
meeting. 
 
Ms. Lincoln requested that board members come up with suggestions for the COA “Wish List” for the Febr uary 
COA meeting. 
 
Board members discussed the idea of developing a Fa cebook page for the Council on Aging and thought th at 
this may be a good charge for the Public Relations Task Group. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT  None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business, Mr. Guenard moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Grant seconded.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned at 10:20AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
February 10, 2015  
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Susan Doherty, Administrative Assistant 
Lunenburg Council on Aging 
    