===PAGE 1===
  
 
 
 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging     
Minutes Approved at the 8/11/2015 COA Meeting 
Annual Meeting Minutes                  
June 9, 2015  
 
CALL TO ORDER:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln called the meeting to or der at 9:30AM. 
 
Present:   Pete Lincoln (Chairperson), Doreen Noble (Directo r), Debbie Lincoln, Sarah Grant, Diane Nowd, Betty 
DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally, Cheryl Moisan, Judy Tarbe ll, Jacquelyn Dwyer, Brian Guenard & Sue Doherty (A dmin. Asst). 
 
Excused:  Deb Seeley  
 
Guest : Jane Rabbitt (potential new COA board member) 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:   
•  Remembrance of Bob Upton: Mr. Lincoln mentioned the passing of long time Lune nburg resident and Eagle 
House Senior Center patron, Bob Upton, and asked th at a moment of silence be observed in his memory.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:   Ms. Grant moved to accept the May 12, 2015 Counci l on Aging minutes.   
Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimo usly. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Director’s Report :   
 
•  Budget Report: Ms. Noble reported that all of the year end expense s/invoices have been taken care of with the 
exception of one invoice.  She explained that she h ad been working with the Town Accountant’s office t o rectify 
the COA budget and there will be $150 left in the COA accounts.  
The FY2016 budget is ready to go and Ms. Noble will review it with Ms. Doherty. 
Ms. Noble thanked the board for their support and e ncouragement to her and said that “it has been a pr ivilege to 
work for the Town of Lunenburg”.   
Ms. Noble  turned the meeting over to Sue Doherty and excused herself from the rest of the meeting. 
 
•  Building Repair Progress: Ms. Doherty reported that DPW is considering instal ling a rubber roof over the 
section of the foyer which suffers water damage dur ing the winter due to ice dams.  Repair work will n ot begin on 
the water damaged sections of the ceilings in the hallway and walls until this is completed.  
 
•  Eagle Scout Walkway: The Eagle Scout who is planning on installing the w alkway from the upper parking lot to 
the lower lot has not contacted the senior center yet about his final plans for this project.  
 
2.  Resignation of COA Board Member Deb Seeley:  Mr. Lincoln informed the board that the COA Vice Ch airperson 
had tendered her resignation effective June 1, 2015.  Ms. Seeley has begun a new job and will be unabl e to continue on 
the COA board.  Mr. Lincoln praised Ms. Seeley on a ll of her contributions to not only the COA board b ut to the other 
boards/committees which she has been involved with in the town. 
 
3. Wish List for submission to Supporters of Eagle House Inc. : Ms. Doherty informed the board that she had 
attended the last Supporters of the Eagle House Inc . meeting with Ms. Noble and presented them with th e COA  “wish list” 
which included plans for a new shed and benches. 
The Treasurer of the Supporters, Jim Hays, informed  her that they have approximately $8000 remaining i n the parking lot 
fund.  He has contacted most of the donor’s to this  fund who have agreed to allow their donations to b e designated to 
other uses for the senior center such as equipment for the recreation behind the center. 
 
4. COA Volunteers for Thursday July 23 
rd  4-6PM Chicken BBQ:   A list was distributed, by request of COA Outreac h 
Coordinator Faith Anderson, for COA board members t o sign up for volunteer duty at the July 23 rd  Chicken BBQ.  
Members who volunteered were Sarah Grant, Cheryl Mo isan, Diane Nowd, Judith Tarbell, Deborah Lincoln, Pete Lincoln, 
and Kevin McNally. 
 
===PAGE 2===
5. COA Volunteer Cookout Monday August 17 th  11AM-2PM: A list was distributed for COA board members to sig n up 
for volunteer duty at the COA Volunteer Recognition  Cookout on August 17 th .  Members who signed up were Sarah Grant, 
Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Judith Tarbell, Debbie Lincoln, Kevin McNally, and Pete Lincoln. 
 
6.  Discussion/Vote for Slate of COA Officers FY16:  Mr. McNally moved to nominate Pete Lincoln to Chair person of the 
Council on Aging for a 1 year term.  Ms. Lincoln seconded.  On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
After due diligent discussion the board decided to nominate Jacquelyn Dwyer to Vice Chairperson of the  Council on 
Aging.  This nomination will be voted on at the August 2015 COA meeting. 
 
7. Task Groups (suggestions):  
The board discussed the roles of each task group an d the practicality of continuing with assigning ind ividual board 
members to these groups.  Members felt that the boa rd as a whole is capable of discussing these matter s during COA 
meetings and if needed an individual member would b e assigned to research and report back on any issue  that may arise.  
This will be discussed again at a future COA meeting. 
 
•  Advocacy (charge of task group is to deal with elder issues within Lunenburg)   
Ms. Dwyer presented changes to the board which were  made to the Boston Post Cane recipient determination 
procedure.  After discussion, the board decided that further discussion with the Board of Selectmen wa s needed 
to finalize protocol on this procedure.  This will be continued to the August 2015 COA meeting. 
Discussion was also held concerning the charge of t he Council on Aging in the Lunenburg Town Charter.  The 
Board of Selectmen will be contacted concerning designating a liaison to the COA. 
 
Ms. Dwyer mentioned that she will be doing a Medication Reconciliation program at the senior center on June 18 
th  
and if needed would be willing to continue with this program on a regular basis at the senior center. 
 
•• ••  Communication  (charge of task group is to deal with how the staff , board members and senior center 
participants communicate with each other .)  
Mr. Lincoln remarked on the Council on Aging Eagle House information flyer saying that he would still like to 
pursue a bulk printing of it for distribution throughout the town. 
 
•• ••  Public Relations –  (charge of task group is to further investigate how to reach a broader audience) 
A brief discussion was held regarding procuring a booth at the Lion’s Club sponsored fair to be held at Stillman’s 
Farm in September.  Discussion on this will be held again at the August COA meeting.  
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  None 
 
BOARD COMMENT:   
Members were reminded about the retirement party be ing held for the Ms. Noble on Wednesday June 3 rd  at the Eagle 
House from 4-6PM. 
 
Mr. Lincoln requested that election of a new board member be placed on the August agenda. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT : None 
 
ADJOURNMENT 
Being no further business, Ms. Grant moved to adjourn the COA meeting.  Ms. Dwyer seconded.   
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Meeting adjourned at 10:52AM 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE  No July meeting 
August 11, 2015, 9:30am  
 
Respectfully Submitted  
Susan Doherty - Administrative Assistant Lunenburg - Council on Aging 
    