===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
October 9, 2018 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, 
Jane Rabbitt, Jacquelyn Dwyer, Deb Lincoln, Sarah Grant, Barbara Brown 
 
Absent:  Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell 
 
GUESTS:  Selectman Jamie Toale, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  None 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes from the 9/11/2018 meeting, 
Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 FY 19 Formula Grant/FY 18 Annual Report: Ms. Doherty distributed copies of the FY 
18 Annual Report to the Executive Office of Elder Affairs, which highlights the 
amount of programs held, new staff members, new programs, and the reliable 
programs that have been held for years and years.  The COA Formula Grant Budget 
for FY 19 was attached, which is slated to cover the cost of two kitchen aides, “Skid 
School” for the van drivers, a portion of the dispatcher’s salary, Meals on Wheels 
mileage stipends, and trainings, etc. 
 Age/Dementia Friendly Community:  Ms. Doherty reported that the first meeting of 
Lunenburg’s Dementia Friendly Community focus group would be held on October 
10, 2018. There will be a presentation on what it takes to become a certified 
Dementia Friendly Community.  
 Tea Party Report: Ms. Grant reported that proceeds from the annual tea party 
brought in $1,500, and that $1,000 has been designated for the Eagle House 
Memory Café, and $500 to the Eagle House Supporters Inc. Ms. Grant said she ran 
into people over the weekends who have already asked for a ticket to next year’s 
tea party. Ms. Doherty expressed her appreciation for the funds, as the grants she’s 
applied for have been slow to come in. 
 Memory Café: Ms. Doherty reported that that the first Memory Café, held at the 
end of September was successful, and about fifteen people attended. Ben Franklin 
the therapy dog was well received, and everyone got to bring home the fresh flower 
centerpieces. Ms. Rabbitt, who volunteered at the café, commented that so much of 
the caregivers’ role comes from a clinical aspect, and the café serves as an 
opportunity to be social with their loved one. Ms. Burchfield, who also volunteered 
at the café, added that she talked with a couple, and the husband said that the café 
is the first place he’s seen his wife smile in seven months. 
 2018 MCOA Conference: Ms. Doherty reported the conference will be in Falmouth 
this year from October 24 to the 26th, and she and Outreach Coordinator Pauline 
Roy will be attending part of the conference. 
Unanimously approved at COA meeting Nov. 13, 2018. 
===PAGE 2===
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported that a painter has been hired to cover the 
damage done to the foyer ceiling by ice dams in the past. Ms. Doherty also reported 
that someone who attends a weekly program at the Eagle House posted something 
on the Discussing Lunenburg Facebook page about how the roof was leaking during 
heavy rains in the area as a result of Hurricane Florence. DPW workers realized 
there are vents in the roof in need of sealing, and the leaks will be repaired. 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty highlighted upcoming events for October and 
November, including the intergenerational program Bridges Together. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported that Eagle House Supporters board member 
Chris Lattanzi has left the board, and Bob Hamel and Pat Kennedy have been added as new board 
members. Ms. Lincoln said she has taken over publicizing the Ham and Bean Supper as board member 
David Dorren has been admitted to the hospital. Ms. Lincoln reported she requested a meeting calendar 
be made for the public to follow, and also suggested meeting minutes be mailed out before Supporters 
meetings to save time, because the board members read the minutes word for word during their 
meetings for approval. According to Ms. Lincoln, the Supporters board was not in favor of her 
suggestion.   
Ms. Burchfield reported that all Eagle House Supporters business will from now on only be discussed at 
meetings, and that each member of the board will be given a copy of the rules so those rules can be 
followed accordingly. Mr. Lincoln asked if he could have a copy of the Supporters policies and 
procedures. Ms. Dwyer commented that she’s concerned with the level of involvement the COA is 
having with the Supporters board. Mr. Lincoln said he wants to be sure the COA and the Supporters are 
on the same page. Ms. Doherty added the COA should be hands off when it comes to fund raising, and 
that Ms. Burchfield is working toward straightening things out so the COA can have less involvement in 
Supporter business. Ms. Burchfield said at the Supporters next meeting policies and procedures are on 
the agenda. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Doherty informed the board that Sand for Seniors this year will 
not be as heavily publicized as it has in the past, and that people who  are known to be in need will be 
served.  Ms. Doherty said Jack Rodriquenz, DPW Director has asked her about the type of road signs she 
wants for the Eagle House.  
 
BOARD COMMENT:   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT:  Mr. Toale reminded board members that the Special Town Meeting warrant would 
close October 11, 2018 after a public hearing is held with the Board of Selectmen and the Finance 
Committee, and that the Special Town Meeting is scheduled for November 13, 2018. 
 
ADJOURNMENT: At 10:40 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn, Ms. Moisan seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Next meeting: Tuesday, November 13, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 