===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes                                                              
December 11, 2018 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Jacquelyn 
Dwyer, Deb Lincoln, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown, Sarah Grant 
Absent:  Jane Rabbitt 
 
GUESTS:  Outreach Coordinator Pauline Roy, Selectman Jamie Toale, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Doherty informed the board that former Meal Site Manager Joanne Brazell passed away. Ms. 
Doherty announced that Secretary for the Massachusetts Executive Office of Elder Affairs is leaving her position. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Lincoln noted that Jacquelyn Dwyer was included on both the present and absent list. The 
minutes were corrected. Ms. DiGiacomo moved to approve the minutes from the November 13, 2018 meeting as 
amended. Ms. Grant seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 Bridges Together: Ms. Roy commented that the program did not go quite as smoothly as it did the 
first time around, and that she and Ms. Doherty are working on collaborating with the teachers and 
principal at Turkey Hill Elementary School, but a date has not been set. Ms. Nowd commented that 
she was aware there were some glitches and pointed out one teacher was new to the program, and 
new to teaching fifth grade. Ms. Nowd said that based on the feedback she heard, it seemed the 
seniors participating in the program took their assignments seriously, while a few of the students 
were not prepared. Ms. Nowd added that the teachers were given a new curriculum to implement 
in the fall, and adding Bridges Together, plus a teacher new to fifth grade seemed to be 
overwhelming, and scheduling the sessions on a day other than Monday might also help improve 
the program. Ms. Burchfield commented that she participated in the first and second session, and 
pointed out that the locations of the sessions were planned in advance for the first session, and 
from the second session it was obvious that one teacher was brand new. Ms. DiGiacomo asked why 
the program was with fifth graders, and opined that maybe the fourth grade would be more 
appropriate for the program. Ms. Lincoln opined that there were two “big” failures with the 
program, one being the lack of a closing meeting with the groups, and the other with the lack of 
planned locations for the groups to meet. Ms. Lincoln said her group was put in a room with no 
chairs and a washer and dryer, and she went out and found chairs for everyone to sit. Ms. Lincoln 
saw the situation as a missed opportunity to teach respect for elders. Ms. Nowd said that was the 
first she heard of Ms. Lincoln’s situation. Mr. Lincoln listed five areas that need improvement. The 
first, the curriculum was scattered, the second is that there is a “Study of Maturation” session, 
which Mr. Lincoln expressed, “was directed toward adults, and read like a PhD thesis.” The third 
concern was consistency. Mr. Lincoln said that for the first two weeks all groups met in the same 
room, and no one could hear each other, and then his group was put in a different room each week. 
Mr. Lincoln suggested a room be set up ahead of time. The fourth concern was the homework. Mr. 
Lincoln suggested the seniors assign the homework, as he was unsure whether the teachers were 
assigning it. Mr. Lincoln asked whether the students had a choice in participating in the program, 
and opined that they should have a choice. Mr. Lincoln’s fifth concern was the lack of a closing 
meeting.  Ms. Roy commented that the point of the program is to bring children and seniors 
together to build relationships, and that the curriculum is just the starting point, and also added that 
students would not be graded on their participation. Ms. Roy also agreed that everyone involved 
should be on the same page, and is hopeful that the conference between the principal and teachers 
will go well. Mr. Toale suggested that all volunteers, regardless of whether they participated in the 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
January 8, 2019 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
program in the past, should attend the training session in the beginning so everyone can discuss 
situations they’ve encountered and how they dealt with them. Ms. Grant pointed out that the fact 
that so many volunteers returned to participate in the second session proves that Bridges Together 
is a good program. 
 FY20 Budget: Ms. Doherty reported there would be a meeting in January concerning the budget, 
and said she won’t be asking for more than level funding. Ms. Doherty also reported that the 
Formula Grant funds for FY 19 have officially been distributed. 
 Capital Plan: Ms. Doherty reported she has submitted her request to DPW employee Kit Walker, 
and has yet to hear feedback from DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz. 
 Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Doherty reported there would be another meeting of the focus 
group on December 18, 2018. The group is working on brochures to distribute to businesses about 
becoming dementia friendly. Ms. Doherty also reported that she plans to attend a percolator 
meeting in Waltham on December 12, 2018. 
 Memory Café: Ms. Doherty reported that the Memory Café is going along so well, even better than 
she could expect, and that there are plenty of volunteers on hand to make sure things run smoothly. 
Last month’s snow people craft was a success. Ms. Moisan, who helped out at the Memory Café said 
someone told her that their spouse actually counts down the days until the Café comes again.  
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported that the leaks in the roof have been repaired.   
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty announced upcoming events at the Eagle House, including a new 
“Armchair Travel” program where seniors are invited to take virtual trips featuring local guest 
speakers. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported that there is no report from the Eagle House Supporters as 
their meeting was canceled so members could attend Joanne Brazell’s funeral. Ms. Lincoln did find out that the 
Supporters are changing their meeting time to the second Friday of each month. Ms. Burchfield added that the 
Supporters are looking for ideas for fund raisers. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Lincoln encouraged board members to spread the word about telephone call scams. Ms. Brown 
distributed an AARP article about themed Memory Cafes.    
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: none 
 
ADJOURNMENT: At 10:23 a.m. Ms.  DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, January 9, 2019, 9:30 a.m. 
 