===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
September 11, 2018 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, 
Jacquelyn Dwyer, Deb Lincoln, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant, Barbara Brown 
Absent:   
 
GUESTS:  Selectmen Jamie Toale, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  None  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes from the August 16, 2018 meeting of the COA, 
Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes of the 
August 14, 2018 meeting of the COA, Ms. Grant seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
 Board Member Vacancy: Ms. Brown has been sworn in at Town Hall. A brief introduction among board 
members took place. 
 Director Performance Evaluation Review from Town Manager: Ms. Doherty received a glowing evaluation from 
Town Manager Heather Lemieux, where on a scale of one to five, one being the worst, and five being best, 
received all fives in all eleven categories. Mr. Lincoln commented that for creativity and initiative, Ms. Doherty, 
“should be a six.” 
 
1. Director’s Report:  
 Formula Grant: Ms. Doherty reported she still hasn’t received an official form from the Controller’s 
office at the Executive Office of Elder Affairs, but the grant will be for about $25,000, which is $12.00 
per elder. Ms. Doherty plans to use the funds for the two kitchen assistants, as well as for 
independent contractors for various activities at the Eagle House, such as a coordinator for the 
Memory Café, and for a Pickle Ball instructor, and Zumba instructor.  
 State Capital Plan $25,000 designated for Eagle House HVAC: Ms. Doherty reported she discussed 
the funds with the town manager, but it is unclear when the money will be received as it is bonded, 
and a request needs to be made.  There is a possibility the funds for repair could come from the 
town’s budget, which would be reimbursed when the bond is released. 
 Age/Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Doherty reported that Pam MacLeod from Elder Affairs 
came to a Department Head meeting and talked about dementia friendly communities to the group.  
Ms. Doherty will go before the Board of Selectmen on September 21, 2018, to talk about Lunenburg 
becoming a “Dementia Friendly Community.” Ms. Doherty is still putting together a focus group, 
which so far includes: Selectman Bob Ebersole, Reverend Ernest Farrah, Pastor from United Parish of 
Lunenburg, Daron Massey, who chairs the Lunenburg Business Association, and Keith Lanzilotti, who 
is the coordinator for the Eagle House Memory Café, and also runs a home care business.  Ms. 
Dwyer volunteered to sit in.  Ms. Doherty said she plans to attend meetings at the Worcester Senior 
Center every other month to assist in the expansion of services and resources available for Memory 
Cafes in the Worcester County area. 
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty and Ms. Tarbell will go before the Board of Selectmen on August 21, 
2018 to talk about the signs on the road leading people to the Eagle House. Ms. Rabbitt suggested 
an eye-catching green for the color of the signs. Ms. Doherty also reported that the DPW is working 
on getting a quote for a painter to clean up the foyer area where damage has occurred from ice 
dams in the past.  
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty went over upcoming scheduled events at the Eagle House. 
 
Approved by COA at 10/9/18 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported she attended two meetings of the Eagle House Supporters, 
and the annual meeting was well attended. When board elections took place, Marie Burchfield was voted in as the new 
Vice President, David Dorren and Gaynor Grieci are now on the board, and Pat Kennedy has been nominated.  Ms. 
Lincoln reported that new fundraising formats have been agreed upon, and there will no longer be a fund raising 
committee. Instead, each fundraiser will be chaired by a board member. Ms. Lincoln also reported that Ms. Doherty 
requested $7,000 from the Supporters and they raised it up to $9,500.  
Ms. Burchfield reported that a Ham and Bean Fundraiser is scheduled for October 20, 2018 at the Eagle House, and “she 
needs all the help she can get.” There is a local vendor willing to donate the coffee for the event. David Dorren is 
working on printing tickets, which will cost $8 for adults and $5 for kids under 8 years old.  Odette Harvey has 
volunteered to make the beans. Ms. Burchfield also reported that Gaynor Grieci is running a Yankee Candle fundraiser to 
benefit the Memory Café.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  None 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Ms. Rabbitt said she spoke with Marilyn Talley who works for Health Alliance Home and Hospice, 
and said she’d help spread the word about the Memory Café.  Ms. Rabbitt also suggested board members explore the 
nutrition program at Hannaford Supermarket, and spread the word, as she thinks it’s a helpful way to eat healthy. Ms. 
Moisan commented that she has met with the nutritionist at Hannaford, and that they are very knowledgeable as well 
as helpful.  
Ms. Lincoln commented that she was happy to see all who attended the Volunteer Appreciation Cookout, and hopes to 
be better prepared next year to improve on the event.  
Mr. Lincoln said people have been approaching him about organizing another “Town Stroll,” And said he would work on 
gathering a committee to make the stroll happen again next year. 
 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT None 
 
ADJOURNMENT Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn the meeting at 10:30 a.m. Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Next Meeting: Tuesday, October 9, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. 
 