===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
11/13/2018 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, 
Jane Rabbitt, Deb Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant, and Barbara Brown 
 
Absent: Kevin McNally, Jacquelyn Dwyer 
 
GUESTS:  Selectman Jamie Toale, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Doherty reminded the board that Town Meeting is scheduled for 7 p.m. on 
November 13, 2018. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. Rabbitt asked about when the vents in the roof would be fixed. Ms. Doherty 
replied that someone is supposed to come this week. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes 
from the October 9, 2018 meeting, Ms. Nowd seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Rabbitt reported that the second meeting of 
the Dementia Friendly Focus Group went well. Keith Lanzilotti, the Memory Café 
Coordinator, gave a presentation on examples of dementia friendly communities in 
Europe. Pastor Ernie Farrar is collaborating with other churches in town; 
Superintendent of Lunenburg Public Schools Kathleen Burnham attended the 
meeting and said she would work on developing community service projects for 
students. The fire and police departments, represented by Karen Weller and Brad 
McNamara, are working on a “Safe Return” program, and setting up a data base 
with names of those in town with dementia. Ms. Rabbitt also reported that the 
Alzheimer’s Association will provide free training, and the plan is to get departments 
trained one at a time. 
 Memory Café: Ms. Doherty reported that the Memory Café is the best thing the 
Eagle House has offered in a very long time. Six new people attended the October 
café where Beekeeper Pat Aubuchon gave an engaging presentation. Ms. Doherty 
reported the Memory Café has been awarded the following grants: $500 from the 
Massachusetts Councils on Aging, $500 from the Friends of Nashoba Hospital, 
$1,000 from the Lunenburg Turkey Hill Family Lions Club, $3,000 from the Eagle 
House Supporters, as well as COA Gift Fund designations, and Formula Grant funds. 
The Memory Café was not awarded a grant from Blue Cross Blue Shield. Ms. 
Doherty reported she has also applied for a grant from the North Central 
Massachusetts Community Foundation. Ms. Doherty also recognized the work of 
volunteers who set up for the October café. Ms. Rabbitt asked if there would be 
handouts available at the next café that point out resources people could use if 
interested.  
 2018 MCOA Conference: Ms. Doherty and Outreach Coordinator Pauline Roy 
attended the Conference in Falmouth, MA this year. Ms. Doherty attended 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
December 11, 2018 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
dementia friendly seminars, as well as a virtual programming seminar, which 
inspired her to try a new armchair travel program at the Eagle House.  
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported that damage from the ice dams around the 
main entrance has been repaired.  Ms. Doherty submitted to the 2020 Capital Plan 
via the DPW to reconfigure the roof over the main entrance of the Eagle House. Ms. 
Doherty has suggested the town hire a project manager to tackle the many tasks 
ahead. The Eagle House needs new floors in two bathrooms, interior painting, a 
parking lot adjacent to Kids Kingdom, and a building generator.  Ms. Doherty also 
discussed a possible fire escape and elevator for the second and third floors, which 
currently are not ADA compliant. 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty went over a list of events to take place in November 
and December. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported that there is still no one available to fix the 
unfinished shuffle board court. Three new members have been voted in to the Eagle House Supporters 
Board, Bob Hamel, Gaynor Grieci, and David Dorren. Ms. Burchfield thanked Ms. Brown for the idea of 
announcing the Ham and Bean Supper at the homecoming football game, and announced that $326 was 
collected at the door that night. Ms. Burchfield said many people donated baked goods, and she had 
more volunteers than she knew what to do with. The Supporters Ham and Bean Supper is on her 
calendar for next year. The supper raised a total of $1,000 for the Eagle House Supporters. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Ms. Lincoln thanked Ms. Tarbell and Ms. Doherty for their work on getting the road 
signs for the Eagle House posted, even though the signs have only one side, but that will be addressed.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT Mr. Toale echoed Ms. Doherty’s announcement about Town Meeting scheduled for 
that night at 7 p.m.  
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:30 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn, Ms. Grant seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Tuesday, December 11, 2018 9:30 a.m.  
 