===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
August 14, 2018 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, 
Deb Lincoln, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell, and Sarah Grant. 
 
Absent:  Jacquelyn Dwyer 
 
GUESTS:  Selectman Jamie Toale, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield, prospective COA board member 
Barbara Brown, prospective COA board member David Dorren 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Mr. Lincoln informed the board that Eagle House Supporters Board Member Ron Sinclair passed 
away, as well as Helen Fortier, who was an avid BINGO player at the Eagle House.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes from the June 12, 2018 meeting, Ms. Grant 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
 Board Member Vacancy: Barbara Brown and David Dorren were invited to the meeting after they submitted 
Talent Bank Forms to Town Hall. Ms. Brown told the board she is a former member of the COA, and left the 
board some years ago, when her term expired. Ms. Brown said that she’s lived in Lunenburg for fifty years, and 
is looking to bring more younger seniors into the building. Mr. Dorren said he’s lived in Lunenburg since 1996, 
and started getting involved in the community in 2011. His wife was ill, and she passed away in 2017, and it was 
in that time he realized that the senior population needs to be aware of the services available to them. Mr. 
Dorren said he learned a lot about how insurance companies work when dealing with his wife’s illness, and 
wants to learn the true needs of Lunenburg seniors, and wants to be sure they are not forgotten. Mr. Lincoln 
informed both candidates that the current board has been together for four years, and they work very well 
together, and also talked about other volunteer opportunities such as the Eagle House Supporters, and the 
Friendly Visitor Program.  
 
 Director’s Report:  
o FY18 End of Year Director’s Report: Ms. Doherty explained that she is working on compiling the 
FY18 end of year numbers for the Executive Office of Elder Affairs. The end of year report to the 
Board of Selectmen went well, and is looking forward to going in front of them for a mid-term 
report, and at the end of the year as well.  
o COA Volunteer Recognition Cookout/Stillman Fair: The police and fire departments have 
volunteered to cook hamburgers and hot dogs on the grill for the volunteer cookout. Ms. Lincoln 
commented that she was at the Pepperell Senior Center and found out that they have different 
awards recognizing specific attributes for their volunteers, such as longest time volunteering, the 
youngest volunteer, etc.  Ms. Doherty said she invited State Senator Dean Tran, and he RSVP’d he’d 
attend. Mr. Toale offered to do whatever the COA needed for the event. Mr. Lincoln encouraged all 
to attend. Ms. Doherty explained that she will go to the Stillman Fair site the night before to set up 
the booth. Ms. DiGiacomo, Ms. Tarbell, and Ms. Burchfield offered to tend the booth at the fair. Ms. 
Rabbitt, and Ms. Moisan were unsure whether they’d be available, Mr. Lincoln and Ms. Lincoln 
figured they could probably attend. 
o Meal Site Manager Position: Ms. Doherty reported that Ms. Ricci is doing well in her new position. 
The Meal Site Manager position is funded through the municipal budget, while the kitchen aides are 
now all funded through formula grant funding.  
o Formula Grant: Ms. Doherty reported that Governor Baker has signed the Commonwealth’s budget 
at $12.00 per elder; therefore, she does not expect a raise in those funds any time soon. Ms. 
Approved by COA at September 11, 
2018 COA meeting 
===PAGE 2===
Doherty said she will use those funds for programs geared toward people over 60 years old. Ms. 
Doherty brought up the outdoor pickle ball program run by Sandy Laserte. Some funding will go 
toward bringing that program indoors to the TC Passios gymnasium for the winter months, after 
CORI checks are completed for those running the program, and documentation of attendance for 
those over 60. Ms. Doherty said she would also like to use Formula Grant funds toward an instructor 
for a Zumba Gold class in the TC Passios gymnasium for the spring. 
o State Capital Plan 25K designated to Eagle House Senior Community Center HVAC repair: Ms. 
Doherty reported that Senators Tran and Benson supported funding to repair the outdated HVAC 
system in the older section of the building, and secured it. Now it’s a matter of scheduling the 
repairs after the funds are received.  
o Age/Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Doherty reported that the Eagle House will host its first 
Memory Café on September 28, 2018, and will continue to be scheduled for the last Friday of each 
month. Vendors and speakers will be funded by Formula Grant funds, and possibly other grants, if 
awarded. Ms. Doherty reported that she would be going before the Lunenburg Lions Club to request 
funding as well as volunteers for the event. Keith Lancillotti of Total Well-Being Home Care has been 
an asset to getting the town established as a Dementia Friendly Community, and assisting with 
planning of the cafes. Ms. Rabbitt volunteered to share how to create a memory book for one of the 
upcoming cafes. Ms. Doherty explained that she is still in the process of networking, and will attend 
a meeting at the Worcester Senior Center at the end of the month and see about bringing 
Percolator Meetings out to the North Central region.  
o SNAP: Ms. Doherty reported that this will be the last quarter the office will deal with SNAP through 
the UMass program, citing communication difficulties. Ms. Doherty explained that online assistance 
will still be available at the Eagle House, since the website has changed to make it accessible to all 
who want to apply. 
o MART Report: Ms. Doherty reported that a new contract is on the agenda to be discussed by the 
Board of Selectmen at their August 14, 2018 meeting.  
o Building Report: The HVAC in the newer section of the building leaked into the computer room, as 
the technicians who serviced the unit stripped the fittings on one of the pipes. The painter sent to 
repair the damage to the ceiling will also touch up the damage left by ice dams in the foyer. Ms. 
Doherty also reported that the wheel chair ramp from the upper parking lot will be repainted by 
United Way volunteers on the Day of Caring, which is September 21, 2018. 
o Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty talked about the upcoming events scheduled at the Eagle House. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT:  Ms. Burchfield introduced herself as the new liaison between the Supporters and 
the COA, and invited everyone to come to the Supporters’ Annual Meeting on September 7, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. Ms. 
Burchfield reported that the Supporters have gained a new member, Gaynor Grieci, and have another vacant seat due to 
the passing of Ron Sinclair. Ms. Burchfield said she strongly supports Ms. Doherty in all her endeavors, and will 
cooperate in every way possible to be sure that the goals for the Eagle House are met. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Tarbell said she has heard many people say they have a hard time finding the Eagle House. 
Other members agreed that the signs on the road directing people are very small. Ms. Doherty said she’d speak to the 
Town Manager to see what could be done about the size of the signs. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: Mr. Toale thanked COA members who attended the Selectmen meeting. He explained that the role 
of liaison will probably change in the future, but that he would come to any meeting the board wants him to attend.  
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:25 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn. Ms. Moisan seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Next meeting: Tuesday, September 11, 2018 at 9:30 a.m. 
===PAGE 3===
 