===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
March 12, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Sue Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, 
Jacquelyn Dwyer, Deb Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant. 
 
Absent:  Jane Rabbitt, Kevin McNally, Barbara Brown 
 
GUESTS:  Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln announced the 2018 World Series Trophy would be coming to the 
Eagle House on April 7, 2019 from 2:30 to 4:30 p.m. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo moved to accept the minutes from the February 12, 2019 
meeting, Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
A brief discussion about prior comments regarding the Bridges Together program took place. Ms. 
Lincoln added that she was at the Eagle House on a day the Lunenburg Friendly Seniors met, and found 
Memorial Dr. to be impassable because so many cars were parked on both sides of the road. Mr. Lincoln 
inquired how to get more information on the Commonwealth sponsored Complete Streets program. Ms. 
Doherty said the Town Manager would have more information on the subject.  Ms. Moisan commented 
that many people from the stitch and chat group parked their cars at the library the day the Friendly 
Seniors met. Ms. Doherty commented Memorial Dr. is too narrow, and something has to be done, but it 
should be done as a part of a total town plan.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 Meeting with Board of Selectmen Tuesday March 19, 2019 at 7 p.m.: Ms. Doherty 
reported she’d give a presentation to the Selectmen about the progress the Eagle House 
has made so far this fiscal year. The presentation will include attendance stats, use of 
the building by outside groups, the Memory Café, as well as the progress of Dementia 
Friendly Lunenburg, and that the World Series Trophy is coming to the Eagle House. 
 Bridges Together: Ms. Nowd reported that the program is in week 3, and the teachers 
are engaging with all the groups, the students are well prepared, and that she’s very 
proud of the teachers. Ms. Doherty added that Outreach Coordinator Pauline Roy did 
well with the training session for the teachers and seniors to get them all on the same 
page.  
 Finance Committee Meeting: Ms. Doherty went before the Finance Committee on 
February 21, 2019 to present the COA budget. Ms. Doherty said the presentation was 
short, and that it went well. 
 Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Doherty reported that a questionnaire on dementia 
is being mailed out with the second quarter tax bills, and that Unitil, and neighborhood 
banks have committed to participating in the dementia friendly training program in the 
future. 
Approved unanimously at the April 9, 
2019 COA meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 Memory Café Grant: Ms. Doherty reported that the grant checks totaling $5,000 from 
the Greater Lowell Community Foundation and the Community Foundation of North 
Central Massachusetts have been received.  
 Shuffleboard Court: Mr. Lincoln reported he’s hiring a former student who has become 
a good carpenter, and he is confident that he can finish the project. 
 Building Report: No report 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty gave a brief description of events scheduled for April.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported the new TV is in and ready to use. Donation 
envelopes have been edited and distributed to area funeral homes. There are ten volunteers who have 
committed to working at the World Series Trophy event. In-memory donations to the Eagle House 
Supporters will now be recorded in a book, and then recognized in an annual document to be inserted in 
the Eagle House newsletter in the summer. The 50/50 raffle drawn at the St. Patrick’s Day luncheon 
brought in $200 for the Supporters. The Eagle House Supporters Facebook page has been launched. A 
50/50 raffle and bake sale has been scheduled to coincide with the Lunenburg Police sponsored car 
show on June 12, 2019. Letters are going out in May for Eagle House Supporter membership renewal.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Mr. Lincoln informed the board that term limits are up for Mr. 
Lincoln, Ms. Rabbitt, Ms. Tarbell, Ms. Dwyer, and Mr. McNally this year. 
 
BOARD COMMENT :  none  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn at 10:29 a.m., Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, 
motion carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday, April 9, 2019 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 