===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
September 17, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Susan Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane 
Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, Pete Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant, John Pesenti, Susan O’Sullivan 
 
Absent:  Barbara Brown 
 
GUESTS:  Council on Aging Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln wished a happy birthday to all the people with a birthday in 
September. Ms. Lincoln also announced that Chris Bibby resigned from the Eagle House Supporters and 
that Marie Burchfield is the liaison again. Ms. Doherty informed the board that former town employee 
Jan Carrier passed away, and her services would take place Friday, Sept. 20, 2019 from 3:00 p.m. to 6:00 
p.m. at the Apple Hill Farm in Leominster.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  The board realized the time of the Board of Selectmen Volunteer Appreciation 
event was incorrect in the minutes of the prior meeting. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the 
minutes of the August 13, 2019 meeting as amended. Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation: A version of the old packet was 
distributed to new members Ms. O’Sullivan and Mr. Pesenti. Ms. Lincoln, Ms. 
Rabbitt, the new members, and Ms. Doherty will assess and update the packet 
contents for future new members of the COA. 
 
 Boston Post Cane: New recipient Lucy Chartrand will be 102 in November of this 
year. Ms. Doherty learned that Ms. Chartrand was eagerly waiting to accept the 
cane as her older sister once held it, and the two were quite competitive. Ms. 
Lincoln, Ms. Doherty. Mr. Lincoln, and chairman of the Board of Selectmen Tom 
Alonzo visited Ms. Chartrand at her home and presented a certificate and Boston 
Post Cane commemorative pin on September 11, 2019. 
 
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported that the access ramp from the upper parking 
lot to the Eagle House has been repainted, along with the pergola and swing that 
sits beside the ramp. Ms. Doherty also reported that Kit Walker of the DPW noticed 
a crack in the sidewalk leading to the front door of the Eagle House. Mr. Walker is 
also looking into replacing the rotted wood on the front porch of the Eagle House, 
as well as resetting the granite benches and repointing the bricks behind the Eagle 
House. Mr. Pesenti highly recommended investing in a leaf guard gutter to go along 
the porch roof.  Ms. Doherty also reported that dumpster located in the upper 
parking lot is meant to be shared between the Eagle House and the Boys and Girls 
Club. Ms. Doherty has seen neighbors using the dumpster for their own household 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
October 8, 2019 meeting 
===PAGE 2===
trash, and reported the abuse to the Town Manager. The Town Manager has issued 
a cease and desist order to the abutters, and the dumpster is slated to be padlocked 
so only the Eagle House and Boys and Girls Club will have access.  
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty announced special events happening soon at the 
Eagle House, including the fifth annual tea party, which was already sold out at the 
time of the meeting. Ms. Grant added that there were 22 volunteers to help make 
the event possible.  
 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln turned the report over to Ms. Burchfield who 
informed the board that the last meeting of the Supporters was canceled due to lack of quorum. Ms. 
Burchfield also reported that at their Annual Meeting the Supporters realized that all officers’ terms 
would end in the same year. The board also refreshed their conflict of interest knowledge. Details are 
being ironed out on the Ham and Bean Supper fundraiser to take place Saturday, October 19, 2019, 
from 4:00 to 7:00 p.m. at the Eagle House. The Eagle House Supporters are looking for a new member to 
replace Ms. Bibby.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:   Ms. Doherty reported she has been participating in the Americans 
with Disabilities Act committee meetings, and they recently met and discussed a study on sidewalks and 
ramps in the center of town. The estimated cost also included Emerald Place, which actually isn’t to be 
included in future projects, so the cost of adding sidewalks is unknown. There will be a public hearing at 
the end of October, according to Ms. Doherty.  Ms. Doherty also informed the board that one of the van 
drivers left, but that a new one, Helen Godin, will be hired. Ms. Godin is actually a retired MART bus 
driver, and Ms. Doherty will request the personnel committee consider raising her starting rate of pay 
given her experience.  
 
BOARD COMMENT :  Mr. Lincoln asked about the rocks along Memorial Dr. and whether they would be 
removed. Ms. Doherty said she contacted Lunenburg Police Chief Jim Marino, who said he would 
contact Tanner Cole, who was the one to put down the rocks in the first place.  
Ms. Lincoln brought up the Eagle House Volunteer Recognition Cookout, and said it was a success, and 
thanked those on the board who volunteered at the event.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:06 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn the meeting, Mr. Lincoln seconded. 
On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Tuesday, October 8, 9:30 a.m. at the Eagle House 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Amanda Koeck 
 