===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
July 2, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Director Susan Doherty, Jane Rabbitt, Chery Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Pete Lincoln, 
Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown, Sarah Grant, John Pesenti, Susan O’Sullivan 
Absent:  Diane Nowd 
 
GUESTS:   
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln welcomed new members Ms. O’Sullivan and Mr. Pesenti to the board. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes from the June 11, 2019 meeting, Ms. Grant 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report: Ms. Doherty reported she will use formula grant funds for Fiscal Year 2019 to focus on 
paying instructors for pickle ball, Zumba, and a new program called Nirvana. Ms. Doherty also met with John 
Londa to schedule times to use the gym at the T.C. Passios for fitness programs for Eagle House patrons.  
 
 Property Tax Work-Off: Ms. Doherty reported that income eligibility for the program has 
increased, as well as the amount of money that can be earned for abatement.  Mr. Lincoln asked 
whether the committee came to a decision on people substituting for an eligible senior who 
can’t perform the duties a property tax work off position would require. Ms. Doherty replied 
that there’s only one town the committee could find who allows substitutes, and determining 
how their program works is vague.   
 Set Date for Volunteer Recognition Cookout: The date for this year’s cookout is September 6, 
2019. Ms. Lincoln pointed out that the cookout has not been very well attended in the past few 
years, and asked the board to come up with ideas to beef up attendance. Ms. DiGiacomo 
commented that last year’s cookout was fun. Ms. Doherty informed the new members of the 
board that each year the Eagle House recognizes its volunteers, and members of the Lunenburg 
Police and Fire departments come and cook hamburgers and hot dogs, certificates are handed 
out, and the volunteer who has given the most hours gets the Tony the Tiger Award.  The event 
is paid for by the Eagle House Supporters.  Ms. Lincoln asked for a list of volunteers for the next 
meeting.  
 New COA Board Member Orientation: Ms. Lincoln showed the board the orientation packet 
that’s been used in the past and suggested updating the packet.  Ms. Lincoln asked board 
members to come up with questions and ideas to create a new orientation packet. Ms. Doherty 
commented the Executive Office of Elder Affairs has a good training program for board 
members. Ms. Rabbitt suggested looking at other town’s orientation packets. 
 Boston Post Cane: Mr. Lincoln described how the Boston Post Cane came to be and that it is an 
award given to the town’s oldest resident, who is willing to accept it.  
 Lunenburg Salary Admin. Plan pertaining to COA Director:  Ms. Doherty reported that after she 
brought her situation with her current step and grade to the Personnel Committee’s attention, 
they saw that there are more positions in town that need to be assessed, and a solution should 
be in place by Fall Town Meeting.  
 Dementia Friendly Lunenburg: Ms. Rabbitt reported the action team is quickly approaching 
getting the town to “Dementia Friendly” status. Ms. Rabbitt said most of the trainings have been 
completed.  Ms. Doherty reported the Memory Café Cookout went well, and the change of 
location from Coggshall Park in Fitchburg to the Eagle House didn’t seem to cause any 
confusion.  
Unanimously approved by COA at 
August 13, 2019 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 Shuffleboard Court: Ms. Lincoln reported the finishing of the project is in progress as Dave 
Dorren of the Supporters has found someone to finish it for $850.00.  
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported the DPW has contacted three people to paint the 
walkway from the upper parking lot to the Eagle House, and the cost will be covered by Formula 
Grant funds.  Painting the interior of more of the Eagle house has also been assessed. Ms. 
Doherty also reported that the rocks across Memorial Drive are still there, and she was told 
they’d be removed in June.  
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty went over upcoming events at the senior center. Ms. Lincoln 
asked when the new census forms were coming out and about ways to let people know how 
important it is to fill them out. Ms. Doherty said she’d contact the superintendent to see if a 
message could be posted on the sign out front of the middle/high school.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported that the Gordon Edes event was well attended, and he was 
able to raise $300 for the Jimmy Fund in his father’s name. Ms. Lincoln added that between getting the World Series 
trophy and raffling off the four tickets behind home plate at Fenway Park, about $4,000 was raised for the Supporters. 
Ms. Lincoln also informed the board that the second annual Eagle House Supporters Ham and Bean Supper will take 
place on Saturday Oct. 19, 2019, in conjunction with homecoming in Lunenburg.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:    
 
BOARD COMMENT :  Mr. Lincoln expressed his gratitude to Selectman Tom Alonzo for allowing the COA to go before 
public comment at their meeting for their reappointments so they could get down to the Gordon Edes event on time.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
ADJOURNMENT Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn the meeting at 10:34 a.m. Mr. Pesenti seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE  Tuesday, August 13, 2019 at 9:30 a.m. at the Eagle House 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Amanda Koeck 
 
 
 