===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
May 14, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Susan Doherty, Betty DiGiacomo, Jane Rabbitt, Jacquelyn 
Dwyer, Deb Lincoln, Kevin McNally, Judy Tarbell 
 
Absent:  Cheryl Moisan, Diane Nowd, Sarah Grant, Barbara Brown 
 
GUESTS:  Selectman Jamie Toale, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield, Susan O’Sullivan, 
John Pesenti. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln thanked Ms. Tarbell for the signs directing people to the Eagle House. 
Ms. Doherty informed the board that former COA member Paul Doherty was gravely ill, and asked the 
board to keep him in their thoughts. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. Lincoln motioned to approve the minutes from the April 9, 2019 meeting. 
Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 Property Tax Work-Off:  Ms. Doherty reported the Property Tax Work-Off 
Committee was discussing when the increase in wages and abatements for the 
program should begin, as the Selectboard voted to make funds available in FY 2020, 
while the program runs through the end of the calendar year.  Some members want 
the increase to take effect on July 1, 2019, and other members of the committee 
think the increase should take effect after everyone has applied and started the 
next session of the program.  
 
 MOC Nutrition: Ms. Doherty reported the soup and sandwich from Montachusett 
Opportunity Council has been well received on Wednesdays, but not so much on 
Mondays.  The kitchen will continue making their own soup and sandwich lunches 
on Mondays at noon, and the MOC lunch will stay for Wednesdays at 11:30 a.m. 
 
 Discussion: Lunenburg Salary Admin. Plan pertaining to COA Director Grade/ Step 
Increase: Ms. Doherty informed the board that she has reached the top of the grade 
and steps for her position on the Salary Administration Plan, and is talking with the 
Town Manager and payroll office to get on the agenda with the Personnel 
Committee to advance to Step 14 on the plan. Ms. Doherty pointed out that her 
position is currently under the same step as an EMT, the Public Access Cable 
Manager, and the Sewer Department Manager, and that those positions are 
unrelated to hers.  Ms. Doherty also alluded that the next person to come into her 
position will expect a higher wage, given the breadth of responsibilities that have 
increased with the job.  Mr. Lincoln volunteered to write a letter to the Personnel 
Committee in support of the step advance for the COA Director position.  
 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
June 11, 2019 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 Discussion: Adding COA meeting in July/ Review Procedure for adding new COA 
board members:  Mr. Lincoln informed the board that the vacancies on the board 
will be advertised on June 1, and the board won’t know how many applications 
come in until after the June meeting, and proposed holding a July meeting in order 
to have a full board to start the next fiscal year.  
 
 FY20 COA Officer Nominations: Ms. DiGiacomo nominated Ms. Lincoln for COA 
Chairperson, and Ms. Rabbitt as COA Vice Chairperson to be voted on at the next 
meeting of the COA, Mr. McNally seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
 Shuffleboard Court: Ms. Lincoln said that Dave Dorren of the Eagle House 
Supporters knows someone who will finish the shuffleboard court for $850.00  
 
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported she asked the Eagle House Supporters for 
$2,500 to hire Atlas Landscaping to take care of the parts of the grounds the DPW 
doesn’t cover. Ms. Doherty also purchased a new PA system that was used for Ted 
Reinstein’s talk. A blue-ray DVD player was also purchased for the new television in 
the main function room. Ms. Doherty is now looking for a painter for Bucky’s 
Corner, as well as someone who can repoint the brick walkway at the back of the 
building.  
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty went over upcoming events at the Eagle House. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported that so far, proceeds from the raffle tickets 
for the Red Sox game and Fenway Park tour have exceeded $2,000. Gaynor Grieci has resigned from the 
Supporters. Annual membership letters have been mailed, and Sue Cioffi has mailed correspondence on 
memorials, while Pat Kennedy has sent out greeting cards. Ms. Burchfield added how important it is for 
people to be acknowledged.   
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Lincoln suggested celebrating another year of success at the 
June meeting by bringing in treats to enjoy after the meeting is adjourned.  
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Ms. Dwyer requested to be removed as an admin from the Eagle House Facebook 
page, as she will no longer be a member of the board. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
ADJOURNMENT Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn the meeting at 10:23 a.m., Ms. Dwyer seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Annual Meeting - Tuesday, June 11, 2019 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 