===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
April 9, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Director Susan Doherty, Cheryl Moisan, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, 
Jacquelyn Dwyer, Deb Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant, Barbara Brown 
 
Absent:  Betty DiGiacomo, Kevin McNally 
 
GUESTS:  Selectman Jamie Toale, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Mr. Lincoln congratulated Ms. Doherty and the Eagle House Supporters for the 
success of the World Series Trophy event at the Eagle House. Ms. Doherty thanked Mr. and Mrs. Lincoln 
and Gordon Edes for bringing the trophy to the Eagle House. Ms. Burchfield added that the people in 
charge of the trophy commented that they were very impressed with the set-up of the building to 
accommodate Red Sox fans.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. Lincoln motioned to approve the minutes of the March 12, 2019 meeting, 
Ms. Dwyer seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 Meeting with Board of Selectmen Tuesday, March 19, 2019: During the Selectmen 
meeting, Mr. Lincoln commented that the 2020 U.S. Census will show the increase 
in the senior population. Mr. Lincoln asked Ms. Doherty about the amount of the 
formula grant next year. Ms. Doherty said the amount could go up or down, but 
should remain at $12.00 per elder. 
 Dementia Friendly Kickoff –Monday, May 20, 2019 at 6:00 p.m. at the Lunenburg 
Public Library: An information session on the Dementia Friendly concept will be 
presented to the public as the Town of Lunenburg will be recognized by the 
Commonwealth as “Emerging Dementia Friendly.” Nicole Kanis of Montachusett 
Home Care and Dementia Friendly Lunenburg Chairperson Keith Lanzilotti will be 
handling the training of local businesses. Ms. Doherty also reported that Ms. Rabbitt 
and Mr. Lanzilotti will be giving a presentation in Spencer on the process of 
becoming Dementia Friendly as well as the Memory Café.  
 Property Tax Work-Off: Ms. Doherty reported that the committee met, and are 
working on increasing the amount of money on the abatement from $1,000 to 
$1,500 for those eligible for the program. The committee is also discussing whether 
they should allow someone to stand in for a senior citizen property owner who isn’t 
able to perform the tasks in a property tax work off position.  
 Montachusett Opportunity Council (MOC) Nutrition: Ms. Doherty reported that the 
agency is concerned about the lack of attendance for their lunches at the Eagle 
House. Ms. Doherty explained that the people are not interested in eating the food 
that comes from MOC.  One to three people sign up for the MOC lunch on Tuesdays, 
and six or seven come for MOC lunch on Thursdays. Ms. Doherty pointed out that 
the soup and sandwich made onsite on Mondays is rather successful and brings in 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
May 14, 2019 meeting.  
===PAGE 2===
eight to fifteen people. MOC suggested sending in soup and sandwiches instead of 
their scheduled meals to see if more people might be interested in signing up.  
 COA Term Limits: Mr. Lincoln said he would be stepping down as chairperson for 
the next term, and that Ms. Rabbitt, Ms. Tarbell, Mr. McNally, Ms. Dwyer, and Mr. 
Lincoln would be up for reappointment in June. Ms. Dwyer and Mr. McNally will not 
be seeking another term.  
 Shuffleboard Court: Mr. Lincoln reported that the person he found to finish the 
project has learned the outdoor temperature must be above 50 degrees in order to 
do the work needed to complete the court.  
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported that the DPW is looking into pricing for splits 
for the heat and air conditioning in the older section of the building. Also, the 
landscaping company has started their spring cleaning work, and a faucet has been 
replaced in one of the bathrooms.  
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty reported an Eagle House patron requested the 
Boston Piano Kid to play at the Eagle House 30th year anniversary celebration after 
the Piano Kid played at a Friendly Seniors meeting earlier in the month.  Ms. Grant 
suggested everyone attend the Art in Bloom exhibit at the Fitchburg Art Museum. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported the admission price to see the World Series 
Trophy at the Eagle House brought in $830.05, and that four tickets behind home plate as well as a tour 
at Fenway Park are being raffled off to raise funds for the Supporters, thanks to Gordon Edes. The 
winning ticket is to be drawn at the Lunenburg Police Association Car Show on June 12, and the tickets 
will be sold at as many events as possible until then. $1,100 worth of raffle tickets have been sold since 
April 5. Ms. Lincoln also wanted to be sure to thank Faith and Gil Anderson for sitting at the door for the 
trophy event.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Doherty attended the Montachusett Regional Planning 
Commission walkability study, and said they are focusing on the town center and the Whalom area.  
 
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Lincoln said she noticed a sign that says the land next to the T.C. Passios is the 
“Future Home of the Lunenburg Skateboard Park.” Mr. Toale commented that the funds for the park are 
not there yet. Ms. Doherty added that several abutters meeting dates have been proposed and sent out 
via town email, and asked board members to check their email and respond as only three members 
have responded so far. 
Mr. Lincoln then thanked Mr. Toale for serving as liaison, and giving the COA a chance to speak in front 
the Board of Selectmen, and also invited Mr. Toale to serve on the COA. Mr. Toale responded that he is 
definitely taking at least a year off, but that if he does come back, he’ll consider serving on the COA.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:11 a.m. Ms. Lincoln motioned to adjourn the meeting, Ms. Dwyer seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Next meeting is Tuesday, May 14, 2019 at 9:30 a.m. 
 