===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
January 8, 2019 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Pete Lincoln, Cheryl Moisan, Betty DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Jane 
Rabbitt, Deb Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant, Barbara Brown. 
Absent:  Jacquelyn Dwyer, Kevin McNally 
 
GUESTS:  Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Selectman Jamie Toale, Eagle House Supporters Liaison Marie 
Burchfield, DPW Director Jack Rodriquenz, Skateboard park representatives Anthony Caiozzo, Griffin Caiozzo, 
Aidan Moore, Aiden Swift. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Mr. Lincoln announced that anytime there is a delay at school, the COA meeting will be 
postponed to the third Tuesday of the month. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes from the December 11, 2018 
meeting, Ms. Grant seconded.  On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Director’s Report:  
 Skateboard Park discussion: Ms. Doherty informed the board that at the last Board of 
Selectmen meeting the location of the proposed skateboard park was discussed among the 
Selectmen, the DPW, and Parks Commission. Mr. G. Caiozzo, Mr. Swift, and Mr. Moore gave 
a brief presentation of a topographical plan of the park, which addressed parking by 
relocating a section of the Kids Kingdom playground. The presenters suggested that most 
skateboarders would be dropped off by parents, or would come straight from the schools 
nearby. The presenters also claimed that most of the activity at the park would occur from 
3:00 p.m. to dusk, implying their actions wouldn’t affect Eagle House patrons. Mr. Lincoln 
asked why the location between the T.C. Passios and Kids Kingdom was chosen. Presenters 
replied that Lunenburg Police Chief Jim Marino accepted that location in terms of visibility 
over a section of Marshall Park, which is more susceptible to graffiti. Mr. Swift added that 
other locations are too secluded, and the old skate park at Marshall Park is deteriorated, 
and that behind the school next to the turf field isn’t accessible to people who aren’t 
Lunenburg students. Mr. Moore stated that the Board of Selectmen decided the location 
next to the T.C. Passios is best and also suggested that more parking would be made 
available to the Eagle House when the park is finished.  Mr. Lincoln informed the presenters 
that when the addition was put on the Eagle House, a septic mound was required, and 
when sewer came, and the mound was removed, the COA at the time presented a plan for a 
parking lot that never went through because they couldn’t raise the $300,000 the parking 
lot would cost, and there were no grants available at the time. Mr. A. Caiozzo opined that 
the park wouldn’t acerbate the parking situation at the Eagle House, and asked if patrons of 
the Eagle House ever park at the T.C. Passios, and pointed out that the park will be small, 
and is not designed to be a destination, but a resource for local skateboarders. Mr. Lincoln 
then asked if the presenters, who stated they are currently in the eighth grade, if they plan 
to continue to use the park throughout high school. Mr. Swift replied that there are high 
school students who drive to other parks outside of Lunenburg. Mr. A. Caiozzo said that he 
knew of people in their twenties and thirties who have expressed interest because they 
Unanimously approved by COA at Feb. 
12, 2019 meeting 
===PAGE 2===
skated in the past, and now their children are learning to skate. Mr. Lincoln asked if there 
would be classes, and commented that a skate park in Leominster was built years ago, and 
no one is using it now. Mr. A. Caiozzo replied that skateboarding will be recognized as an 
Olympic sport in 2020, and also said that kindergartners are being recruited now, and that 
there is collaboration with other parks and the YMCA to offer classes. Ms. Nowd asked if the 
park would be illuminated at night. Mr. Moore responded that the park would close at dusk, 
so no one should be there at night. Mr. Lincoln asked if the town would be held liable for 
any injuries incurred at the park. Ms. Lemieux responded that incidents at the park would 
be covered under the town’s current insurance policy. Mr. Lincoln asked if ownership of the 
park would be turned over to the town. Mr. Rodriquenz replied that the Park Commission 
would be responsible for the park upon its completion. Mr. Lincoln asked if the town would 
fund repairs to the park. Mr. A. Caiozzo responded that a “Friends” group will be 
established to cover the upkeep of the park. Ms. Doherty expressed her concerns about the 
use of the park when school is out for summer vacation, and the safety of its users who may 
be riding their skateboards to the park via Memorial Dr. Ms. Doherty also questioned 
whether the Eagle House bathrooms will be expected to be available to those using the 
skate park. Ms. Doherty said she supports the idea of relocating part of the playground in 
order to fit in more parking, and also asked about potential sidewalks down Memorial Dr. 
and whether the gate on Memorial Dr. that prevents access between the T.C. Passios and 
Memorial Dr. was due to come down. Ms. Lemieux responded that the Montachusett 
Regional Planning Commission has been tasked with doing a study on the area, and that 
sidewalks on Memorial Dr. will fall under the Commonwealth sponsored Complete Streets 
project.  Mr. Toale pointed out that there are several projects happening simultaneously, 
and many meetings among abutters, including town employees,  will be coming up to 
discuss what could work best for everyone. “Whoever puts the first shovel in the ground 
will need to know how other projects will be affected,” he said.  
 Bridges Together: Ms. Doherty reported that the conference call with Turkey Hill Middle 
School principal Heidi Champagne, fifth grade teacher Rhonda Connery, outreach 
coordinator Pauline Roy, and Ms. Doherty addressed the issues of the last session, and it 
was decided to host both the teachers and the volunteers to the same training session to 
assure each person understands their roles for the next session to begin in February. 
 FY20 Budget: Ms. Doherty reported she’ll be asking for $100 more this year to cover the 
rise in the Montachusett Opportunity Council donation amount.  Ms. Rabbit moved to 
accept the proposed budget, Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously.  
 Capital Plan: Ms. Doherty asked Mr. Rodriquenz if her requests have been included in his 
proposal to the Capital Plan Committee. Mr. Rodriquenz replied that Ms. Doherty’s requests 
weren’t eligible for the capital plan because they weren’t over the $10,000 minimum. Ms. 
Doherty then asked about the reconfiguration of the roof above the main entrance to the 
Eagle House, and Mr. Rodriquenz replied that the request is being discussed. 
 Dementia Friendly Community: Ms. Rabbitt informed the board that the “Forget-Me-Not” 
is the designated symbol for dementia, and that Lunenburg students are working on 
designing logos for the Dementia Friendly Community concept. Ms. DiGiacomo commented 
that the ID cards, which let people know in a subtle way that the person they are dealing 
with has a memory problem, are very helpful. Ms. Rabbitt also reported that Paula Bertram 
will be representing the Lunenburg Planning Board on the Dementia Friendly Community 
focus group.  
===PAGE 3===
 Memory Café: Ms. Doherty reported the December café was well attended, despite the bad 
weather.  
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty reported that the DPW is working on getting quotes to paint 
the interior of the building.  Ms. Lincoln asked about the Veterans Affairs Agent’s office 
moving out of the Eagle House. Ms. Doherty explained that since the office is not 
handicapped accessible, it will be used for additional storage.  
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty reported an Eagle House Supporter fund raiser involving the 
2018 World Series Trophy is in the works. The trophy might be at the Eagle House in early 
April. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln reported the Supporters are working on donation envelopes 
to supply area funeral homes. The finance report was tabled. The ping pong ball 50/50 raffle brought in $235. 
The Supporters are working on developing a Facebook page. Ms. Burchfield commented that holding a 50/50 
leading up to special events works well. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Doherty informed the board that AARP will not be coming to do taxes 
at the Eagle House this year, because they don’t have enough volunteers. 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Mr. Lincoln said he attended the Eagle House New Year’s Eve party and he enjoyed it.   
 
PUBLIC COMMENT Ms. Lemieux asked the board if they had a time preference concerning upcoming forums 
in regard to town business. The board agreed they would prefer meetings during the day. Mr. Toale 
announced that the Board of Selectmen would be discussing Town Meeting warrants, and marijuana 
prohibition. 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:55 a.m. Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to adjourn. Ms. Grant seconded. On vote, motion 
carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE: Tuesday, February 12, 2019 at 9:30 a.m. at the Eagle House. 
 
 