===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                            
Meeting Minutes  
June 9, 2020 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. Chairperson Deb Lincoln read a statement concerning the Open Meeting Law, and how all 
public meetings in Massachusetts are legally being held remotely.  This meeting was held via Zoom. 
 
Present:  Director Susan Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Jane Rabbitt, Diane Nowd, Betty DiGiacomo, Peter Lincoln, 
Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant, Susan O’Sullivan 
 
Absent:  John Pesenti, Cheryl Moisan, Barbara Brown 
 
GUESTS:  none 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:   
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. DiGiacomo motioned to approve the minutes from the March 10, 2020 meeting, Mr. Lincoln 
seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. COA Re-appointments: Cheryl Moisan, Diane Nowd, Sarah Grant: Ms. Lincoln reported that all three 
members have expressed interest in being reappointed, and two out of three have submitted their 
completed reappointment forms to the Office of the Board of Selectmen.  Mr. Lincoln moved to recommend 
reappointment of Ms. Grant, Ms. Moisan, and Ms. Nowd. Ms. O’Sullivan seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously. 
2. Vote for FY21 COA Chairperson and Vice Chairperson: Mr. Lincoln moved to nominate Ms. Lincoln as 
chairperson and Ms. Rabbitt as chairperson, noting that the two officers are still in the process of 
accomplishing their goals. Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
3. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation: Tabled until the council can meet in person. 
4. COA Bylaws vs. Policies and Procedures: Tabled until the council can meet in person. 
Ms. O’Sullivan moved to resume discussion of orientation and policies and procedures until the council 
can meet in person. Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
5. Director’s Report:  
 Covid-19 Report: Ms. Doherty reported that the St. Patrick’s Day luncheon was canceled the same 
morning it was scheduled, and has been postponed to a date to be determined. The office staff has 
been delivering meals on wheels since March, and also coming into the office on alternate days to 
keep down any possible exposure to Covid-19. The meal site manager has also been coming in to 
expedite meals on wheels, and the van has been running at a limited capacity. Ms. Doherty also 
reported that all town employees have been required to complete a Covid-19 web seminar, and that 
several signs have been posted throughout the building displaying proper virus protection protocol. 
Ms. Doherty also reported that the Eagle House has begun hosting “Drive Through Only” programs, 
in which coffee and donuts are being served curbside on Tuesdays, sandwiches on Thursdays, and 
ice cream treats on Fridays. Patrons will not have to leave their cars, and those who are serving food 
and beverages will be wearing a mask and gloves.  These programs are being funded by the 
Executive Office of Elder Affairs formula grant fund in lieu of programs missed because of 
cancelations due to Covid-19.  
Ms. Doherty also reported that the building will open toward the end of July to host ten people who 
reserve places for the Stronger Seniors Chair Yoga DVD.  Participants will be expected to cooperate 
with having their temperature taken with a “no-touch” thermometer, and wearing a mask to cover 
their nose and mouth, as well as keeping at least six feet away from other patrons.  Those who 
cannot wear a mask due to medical reasons will be excused. The Eagle House will also host movies 
on Wednesdays, and a grief support meeting once a month. Those events will be limited to ten 
people and Covid-19 guidelines will apply. Ms. Lincoln commented that the daily updates from the 
Approved unanimously by COA at 
their Oct. 13, 2020 meeting held 
via Zoom. 
===PAGE 2===
Eagle House Facebook Page have been very helpful, and send a positive message to all who get to 
see it. 
 Resignation of COA Van Driver: Ms. Doherty read a letter of resignation from Paul Grunditz. Ms. 
Doherty said she wouldn’t be advertising the position any time soon, considering the van is only 
transporting people to medical and dental appointments, and to the grocery store. Only one 
passenger is allowed on the van at a time, and the driver must wear a mask, and gloves, and sanitize 
all surfaces between each stop.  
 Outreach Coordinator/SHINE Counselor: Ms. Doherty informed the board that Outreach 
Coordinator Pauline Roy is training to become a SHINE (Serving Health Insurance Needs of Everyone) 
Counselor.  Ms. Doherty said she’s pleased that the Eagle House will have its own SHINE Counselor 
in house to help answer questions as they come in. 
 Town of Lunenburg Senior Tax Work-Off Program: Ms. Doherty reported that since most town 
offices have been closed it’s been challenging for participants in the program to accumulate hours.  
 Ms. Lincoln asked for an update on the Discovery Site, which is a program that was scheduled to 
take place before the pandemic, aiming to train recent retirees for volunteer positions that could 
utilize their professional backgrounds.  Ms. Doherty responded that the Transition Navigators have 
been contacted and will be participating in training for the program in an online format.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Lincoln informed the board that the Eagle House Supporters had not met 
therefore there would be no report. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Mr. Lincoln inquired about the next Boston Post Cane Recipient, and the most current list indicated 
it is Agnes Pierce.  
Ms. Lincoln thanked the Eagle House staff for the ways they’ve coped with the needs of Lunenburg senior citizens in the 
midst of Covid-19. Ms. Doherty also thanked each employee for coming in and handling whatever tasks were thrown 
their way during what has proved to be a very trying time for the whole community.    
 
PUBLIC COMMENT no members of the public were present 
 
ADJOURNMENT Ms. DiGiacomo moved to adjourn the meeting, Mr. Lincoln seconded. On vote, motion carried 
unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
July 21, 2020 at 9:30 a.m.  
 
 