===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
February 11, 2020 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:33 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Susan Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Cheryl Moisan, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, 
Judy Tarbell, Sarah Grant 
 
Absent:  Betty DiGiacomo, Pete Lincoln, Barbara Brown, John Pesenti, Susan O’Sullivan 
 
GUESTS:  Council on Aging Liaison to the Eagle House Supporters Marie Burchfield 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln wished a happy birthday to board members who have birthdays in 
February. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: Ms. Rabbitt motioned to approve the minutes from the January 14, 2020 
meeting, Ms. Tarbell seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation: Ms. Lincoln suggested tabling the topic 
until more board members can be in attendance for the discussion. 
 
2. COA Bylaws vs. Polices & Procedures: The board reviewed and updated a document titled 
“Lunenburg Council on Aging Bylaws.” Ms. Lincoln suggested deducting the formal legal 
language from the document, as well as taking out the word bylaws, and replacing it with 
procedures, and the board agreed. Ms. Doherty suggested adding MART regulations 
regarding COA Van policies, as well as developing a building and visitation policy to address 
potential issues regarding patrons and their ability to take responsibility for their activities 
of daily living.  The board agreed to delete some clauses, as well as add new language to the 
newly titled “Lunenburg Council on Aging Procedures.” Ms. Lincoln said she would type the 
new document and that it would be distributed with next month’s meeting agenda.  
 
3. Director’s Report:  
 Building Report: Ms. Doherty informed the board that the splits in the old 
section of the building that used to control only the air conditioning have been 
replaced by newer models that control both heat and cool air. 
 
 Town of Lunenburg Senior Tax Work-Off Program: Ms. Doherty reported that 
not many applications have been received by the committee, and that the last 
meeting was postponed due to lack of quorum.  
 
 Heart to Home Meals: Ms. Doherty reported that a new company focusing on 
frozen home delivered meals for senior citizens is coming to the Eagle House to 
give some information about their menu and ordering options. 
 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
March 10, 2020 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 Discovery Center/Empower Success Corps: Ms. Doherty reported she’s applying 
to become a pilot site host for this program which is designed to connect  area 
volunteers with opportunities that match their skills. 
 
 Americans with Disabilities Act Meeting: Ms. Doherty informed the board she 
would be attending a meeting at Town Hall regarding recent studies done on 
the town center and other areas to make them more accessible.  
 
 Memory Café Lending Library: Ms. Doherty reported the lending library is going 
well, and that she is adding books for caregivers to borrow as well.    
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty summarized upcoming events at the Eagle 
House. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: The Supporters will meet on March 6, 2020 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  Ms. Doherty distributed a letter and information from the 
Lunenburg Historical Commission on their proposed Community Preservation by-law. 
 
BOARD COMMENT: none 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:41 a.m. Ms. Nowd moved to adjourn the meeting, Ms. Moisan seconded. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE 
Next meeting is Tuesday, March 10, 2020 at 9:30 a.m.  
 
 