===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
April 12, 2022 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 
 
Present:  Director Sue Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Cheryl Moisan, Diane Nowd, Jane Rabbitt, 
Pete Lincoln, Judy Tarbell, Barbara Brown,  
 
Absent:  Jacquelyn Dwyer, John Pesenti, Betty DiGiacomo, 
 
GUESTS:   
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Lincoln informed the board that she spoke with Town Manager Heather 
Lemieux, and the outdoor recreation project has been put back into the town’s capital plan.  
Mr. Lincoln informed board members that former board member Gloria O’Brien has passed away. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Mr. Lincoln motioned to accept the minutes from the March 8, 2022 meeting, 
Ms. O’Sullivan seconded. On vote, motion carried.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. FY23 Board Member Terms: Ms. Lincoln reported that she has consulted with the Town 
Manager’s executive assistant and Chairman of the Select Board about how to fill the seat 
left vacant by Sarah Grant. In the meantime, the Select Board’s office received a Talent Bank 
Form from former board member Jacqueline Dwyer, and was appointed to the Council on 
Aging to finish out the recently vacated seat. The board also discussed changing the way 
seats are reappointed because five seats are up this year.  
Ms. O’Sullivan motioned to recommend a one-time temporary appointment for two years, 
for one seat, and the remaining three seats will be three-year terms. Ms. Nowd seconded. 
Upon discussion, board members agreed to have Mr. Lincoln occupy Mr. Pesenti’s seat, 
while Ms. Rabbitt, Ms. O’Sullivan, and Ms. Tarbell’s terms will remain three years long. On 
vote, motion carried unanimously. 
Ms. Rabbit motioned to support the reappointment of Ms. Tarbell, Ms. O’Sullivan, Ms. 
Rabbitt, and Mr. Lincoln. Ms. Moisan seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously.  
 
2. New Council on Aging Board Member Packet: The board agreed to add all former and 
present COA board members to the packet, and to denote the chairs of the board. Ms. 
Brown added that she’d like to add the history of the Bellow’s House (Now known as the 
Eagle House) to the packet, and she’d have a draft ready by July.  
 
3. Director’s Report:  
 Council on Aging Turns 55 Celebration: Ms. Doherty informed the board that 
she’d like to host an event at the Eagle House to celebrate the Council on 
Aging’s 55th birthday. Mr. Lincoln suggested tracking down phone numbers and 
addresses of former board members in order to invite them. Ms. Doherty said 
she’d call entertainers, and see if the police and fire departments would work 
the grill for a cookout. Ms. Doherty is also looking into getting an ice cream 
truck for the celebration. 
Approved as amended unanimously 
by COA at May 10, 2022 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
 Lunenburg Elder Connect: Ms. Doherty reported that she has applied for a grant 
for $10,000 to purchase a My Senior Center account, which would be used to 
accommodate the police and fire departments, as well as Nashoba Nursing, 
along with the office at the Eagle House to use for communications purposes 
when dealing with at risk seniors in town. 
 
 Covid-19: No report 
 
 Building and Grounds: Ms. Doherty reported that a tree fell down across the 
bocce court in late March.  
Ms. Doherty also reported that the rocks that line Memorial Drive have been 
moved further from the road, but still remain on town property.  
 
 Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty updated the board on upcoming events.  
 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: In Ms. Kennedy’s absence, Ms. Lincoln informed the board that 
the Supporters met earlier in March. The Hannaford fundraiser brought in $254. New board member 
Elaine Murphy will be helping the treasurer with his duties. The annual fundraiser/dues letter will go out 
May 6, 2022. Barbara Kolk is now on the board. The Supporters next meeting will be held June 3.  
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:  none 
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Mr. Lincoln asked Ms. Doherty if she’d talk to the Town Clerk about the next 
Boston Cane recipient. Ms. Rabbitt informed board members that Art in Bloom is at the Fitchburg Art 
Museum on April 29, 2022. 
 
PUBLIC COMMENT none 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:50 a.m. Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn, Ms. Moisan seconded. On vote, motion 
carried.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday, May 10, 2022 at 9:30 a.m. 
 
 