===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                              Minutes Approved at March 8, 2022 COA Meeting 
Meeting Minutes 
January 11, 2022 
 
CALL TO ORDER:  9:35 
 
Present:  Director: Sue Doherty,  Chairperson: Deb Lincoln, Jane Rabbitt, Susan O’Sullivan, Barbara 
Brown, Pete Lincoln, Diane Nowd, Betty DiGiacomo, Cheryl Moisan, Judy Tarbell 
 
Absent:  Sarah Grant, John Pesenti, and Administrative Assistant, Amanda Koeck 
 
GUESTS: Lou Franco: Select Board representative. 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Deb thanked all for coming out on this frigid morning and for complying with the 
reinstated mask mandate.  
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. Doherty requested that the amount of $26,000 that was recorded in the 
December 14, 2021 minutes for the FY23 COA Budget increase be amended to $17,000. 
Mr. Lincoln mentioned that his name was not included in the December 14, 2021 minutes as a 
contributor to the COA history segment of the New Board Member Orientation package and would like 
to amend the minutes to reflect that. 
 
Mr. Lincoln moved to approve the minutes as amended from the December 14, 2021 meeting. Susan 
O’Sullivan seconded. On vote, motion carried unanimously. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. New Council on Aging Board Member Orientation.  Susan O’Sullivan re-wrote the table of 
contents for our updated COA Orientation manual. Amanda updated the COA contact list. 
Ms. Doherty updated the acronyms list (Alphabet Soup). The orientation packet is complete 
with the exception of COA history. This will be completed by COA Board member Barbara 
Brown, Peter Lincoln, Judy Tarbell and Director Sue Doherty.  
2. The review of our By-laws is tabled at this time until Lunenburg town By-laws are reviewed.  
3. Ms. Lincoln asked Mr. Franco what the procedure is for COA members who would like to 
continue serving on the COA. He will look into this. 
4. The Lunenburg Finance Committee Meeting/Budget review takes place on 2/24/22 at 7 PM. 
5. Executive office of Elder Affairs Annual Report. The state continues to use results from the 
2010 census as the 2020 census has not yet been completed. Sue reported that the 
“unofficial” number of residents over age 60 is app. 3300. 
6. A new van driver has been hired. Benjamin McGinnis.  
7. The Personnel committee meeting regarding the Assistant Meal Site Manager/Meal Site 
Manager positions was cancelled. 
8. Memorial Drive Boulder Report. Mr. Franco reported that the Select Board discussed 
alternatives at their last meeting. The town survey was completed and it was determined 
that the boulders on Memorial Drive were over the town line. Two options were discussed. 
The first option was the Self Help option. The town would remove the boulders and the 
owner would pick them up at the Highway dept. The second option was to file with the 
State Superior court to get a court order for the owner or the town to  remove the boulders. 
The Select Board voted for the second option as there were concerns regarding Town 
===PAGE 2===
liability. The COA members expressed hope that this will be resolved soon as this issue has 
been going on at least since 2007. 
9. Director’s Report.  
 Covid 19 Report.  The Mask mandate has been re-instituted town wide by the Town 
Manager.  Ms. Doherty reported that large gatherings at the Eagle house have been 
temporarily cancelled (Bingo, Cribbage, Pancake Breakfast, Mrs. Bellow’s Breakfast 
Bar). The town of Lunenburg has purchased Covid-19 Rapid test kits. The Senior 
Center was given 100 test kits that are available free to Senior citizens starting 
today.  
 Building and Grounds Report.  The former company contracted as grounds keepers 
for the Eagle House are continuing with shoveling of snow this winter. They missed 
shoveling a sidewalk and were notified of this. The DPW were able to complete the 
shoveling. 
 Upcoming Events. 
Taste the Greek Diet, Friday January 14th at 10 AM. 
Veterans Informational Expo, Tuesday January 25th at 2 PM. This is a multi-agency 
event. 
Sand for Seniors. This program is limited to Seniors who are unable to purchase/pick 
up sand on their own due to physical limitations. 
Zumba with Amy Leblanc. This is a six week class for $25.00 Fridays at 1 PM, 
beginning on January 14th, 2022. 
Yoga for Vitality Class time is changing from six PM to 5:30 PM on Wednesdays. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTER’S REPORT: 
Pat Kennedy was unable to attend today’s meeting. Elaine Murphy was added to the Eagle 
House Supporter’s Board. There are still two vacancies on the Board. It was suggested that Lou 
Franco announce these vacancies at the next Select Board meeting when reporting on this 
meeting. 
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS:  None. 
 
ADJOURNMENT: Mr. Lincoln moved to adjourn the meeting. Ms. O’Sullivan seconded it. On vote, this 
motion was carried unanimously.  
 
UPCOMING Meeting SCHEDULE:  
Next Meeting: Tuesday, February 8, 2022 @ 9:30 AM 
 
Respectfully Submitted 
Jane Rabbitt, Council on Aging Vice Chairperson 
 
 
 