===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                             
Meeting Minutes  
January 10, 2023 
 
CALL TO ORDER: 9:30 a.m. 
 
Present:  Director Susan Doherty, Chairperson Deb Lincoln, Vice-Chair Jane Rabbitt, Cheryl Moisan, Betty 
DiGiacomo, Diane Nowd, Pete Lincoln, Jim McGuigan, Susan O’Sullivan 
 
Absent: Judy Tarbell 
 
GUESTS:  Town Manager Heather Lemieux, Select Board member Heather Sroka, Eagle House 
Supporters Liaison Marilyn Talley.  
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS:  Ms. Doherty informed the board that former van driver Jerry Beloin passed away.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL:  Ms. Lincoln made a correction regarding the latest resignation letter. Mr. Lincoln 
motioned to approve the minutes from the December 13, 2022 meeting as amended, Mr. McGuigan 
seconded. On vote motion carried unanimously.  
 
NEW BUSINESS: 
1. Lunenburg 300th Anniversary celebration: Mr. Lincoln is serving on the town’s designated 
committee for the celebration, and encouraged board members to think about ideas on 
how the Council on Aging can be featured in the celebration. 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS:  
1. Vision for FY23/Senior Center Logo: Board members chose purple font for the “Live active. 
Live well.” portion of the logo. 
 
2. Council on Aging Board Member search: There are two vacancies on the board. Members 
were urged to encourage people to attend a meeting, and fill out a Talent Bank form.  
 
3. Council on Aging Board Member Orientation Packet: Ms. Lincoln asked all members to bring 
their draft packets to the next meeting for more editing. 
 
4. Council on Aging Board Member Town Email: Ms. Lincoln worked with Suzor IT to find 
passwords for all members’ accounts. New town email can be found at outlook.office.com. 
The email address is the first initial of the first name and the last name followed by 
@lunenburgma.gov.  
 
DIRECTOR’S REPORT: 
 COA FY24 Budget: Ms. Doherty will go before the Finance Committee on February 23 at 
7:30 p.m. The COA budget, which has been submitted to the Town Manager, seeks a 
$29,338 increase. Additional hours for the outreach coordinator, and an additional part-
time outreach assistant is being requested. More hours for the administrative assistant 
are also being requested. MART will cover the additional four hours per week for the 
Unanimously approved by COA at 
their February 14, 2023 meeting. 
===PAGE 2===
administrative assistant as the hours fall under the transportation coordinator title of 
the position. Ms. Doherty is also requesting to move the assistant meal site manager 
position over to the municipal side of the budget rather than depending on Formula 
Grant funds to supply the recurring expense. Program attendance, transportation, meal 
site services, and general services have all significantly increased from prior years.  
 
 Capital Plan: Ms. Doherty reported that the Capital Planning Committee wants more 
information on the $150,000 request for additional parking at the Lunenburg Adult 
Activity Center. It’s been advised to consider putting an article on the Town Warrant for 
Annual Town Meeting.  
 
 Building and Grounds: A bid package is being formulated for the ADA Patio project. With 
newly discovered additional costs, engineers working on the project have suggested 
putting the project out to bid in phases.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: Ms. Talley reported that the Supporters need someone to watch 
over the donation location on Thursday mornings for their clothing drive fundraiser. Over 200 bags have 
been collected so far. 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS:   
 
BOARD COMMENT:  Mr. Lincoln encouraged board members to think of people they know who would 
well serve on the Council on Aging.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT 
 
ADJOURNMENT At 10:31 a.m., Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn, Ms. DiGiacomo seconded. On vote, 
motion carried.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE Tuesday, February 14, 2023 at 9:30 a.m.  
 
 