===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                  Minutes Approved at 11/12/2024 COA Meeting                                                                      
Meeting Minutes 
October 8, 2024 
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called Executive Session meeting  
Present Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice chairperson) Susan Doherty (Director), Pete Lincoln, 
Diane Nowd, Helen Balcom, Jim McGuigan, Cathy Beale, Elena Christopher, Susan O’Sullivan, Judy Tarbell, 
Ana Lockwood. 
Excused N/A 
Guests Caesar Nuzzolo, Lunenburg Selectboard Chair 
Announcements Ms. Doherty announced that the Council on Aging van fares have been waived for those 60+ 
until the end of June 2025 due to grant funding MART had received. 
Public Comment: 
Board Comment: Mr. Lincoln stated that the Boston Post Cane Ceremony was great.  He will be starting the 
search to find approximately sixty years of former Lunenburg Boston Post Cane recipients so that the official 
Boston Post Cane website can be updated.    
Ms. Rabbitt stated that the Agricultural Fair that was recently held on the T.C. Passios grounds, was a great 
success. 
Ms. Lockwood remarked that she recently listened to a podcast regarding men and activities that they are 
interested in.  She would like to hear ideas on programs geared towards men for the Lunenburg Adult Activity 
Center (LAAC). 
Ms. Lincoln would like the board to consider beginning a COA “Sunshine Fund” to send greeting cards to 
Lunenburg residents for special occasions. 
Minutes Approval It was moved and seconded to accept the minutes of the September 10, 2024, COA 
meeting.  All approved motion, carried. 
NEW BUSINESS   
MART (Montachusett Area Regional Transportation) CONNECT Article for Special Town Meeting:  Ms. 
Doherty informed the board that there will be an article at special town meeting to see if the Town will 
appropriate $20,000.00 to support the operation of the Lunenburg MART CONNECT Transportation program.  
This program began with a grant to MART in July 2023 which ran through June of 2024.  This program is 
available to Lunenburg residents of any age for inexpensive transportation anywhere within 20 miles of their 
home. 
Special Town Meeting Article Establishment of Lunenburg Council on Aging Meal Site Revolving Fund:  
Ms. Doherty stated that she has been collaborating with the Town Accountant and the Interim Town Manager 
on preparing an article for November 12, 2024, Special Town Meeting (STM) to develop a revolving fund of 
$16,000 for the purpose of purchasing food for the LAAC meal site.  All board members were encouraged to 
attend the STM to cast their votes. 
Process for Council on Aging Director Interviews: The current thought that is being discussed for the 
process of conducting interviews for the COA Director position is that there will be a vetting committee 
compiled of Town Officials who will then present the best candidates to the Assistant Town Manager and 
Interim Town Manager to make the final hiring decision. 
Eagle House Supporters Inc. Dissolvement: Ms. Doherty relayed to the board that the Eagle House 
Supporters Inc., which have been in existence for 40+ years, have begun the process of dissolving due to the 
lack of not being able to attract new volunteers to sit on their board.  At the end of the dissolvement process all 
their funds will be given to the Lunenburg COA Gift Fund.  She expressed her disappointment about their 
===PAGE 2===
decision saying that the LAAC will be losing between $10,000 - $15,000 annually for programs and events.   
Ms. Doherty and Ms. Lincoln met with Town Counsel regarding this matter, and he cited (MGL) Chapter 44, 
section 53A regarding the Town accepting gifts/donations to the COA Gift Fund.  This will be able to be 
accomplished, and COA Gift Funds will be able to be garnered when needed by the Director of the COA after 
COA Board and Selectboard approval.   
Discussion ensued regarding having a “blanket approval” from the COA Board and Selectboard rather than 
sending weekly/monthly requests to the boards.  This is currently the practice when COA funds are used but 
because it will be used more often, it would save time when paying vendors. 
Ms. Doherty would like to attend a future Selectboard meeting to discuss her concerns on the loss of this 
funding source and how it will severely impact future programming at the LAAC. 
Council on Aging Gift Fund: Discussed under Eagle House Supporters Inc. Dissolvement 
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
Update FY26 Budget Requests: Ms. Doherty stated that if the town department budgets are released before 
her retirement, she will be requesting an increase of $10,000 to the COA program line and an increase in hours 
for the Meal Site Manager from 19.5 to 26 hours per week. 
MCOA (Massachusetts Councils on Aging) Resource Guide for Council on Aging Board Members: Ms. 
Lincoln requested that board members keep reviewing the guide for discussion at the November meeting. 
Volunteer Recognition/Cookout Friday September 20th 11:30AM: Ms. Lincoln thanked the COA board 
members for “stepping up” with set up and take down of tables and chairs along with donating free raffle items 
for the event.  
Also discussed was having a smaller event just for volunteers in the future. 
ARPA Submissions – Parking Lot Plans: Ms. Doherty reported that the Facilities Manager will put the 
parking lot plans back into Capital Plan and lower the amount to $30,000 for FY26 
DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
Capital Plan: 
 Generator – Still waiting for the arrival of the fuel tank. 
 Roof Repair – The roof contractor has been chosen and we are waiting for the finalization of the 
contract. 
 Flooring – The flooring project will be placed in the FY27 Capital Plan. 
 Kitchen – Currently there is no progress being made with the kitchen remodel. 
 Sail Shades – The sail shade project will be placed in the FY27 Capital Plan. 
Building & Grounds Report:  
 Outdoor Electrical – Electrical is projected to be installed in Spring 2025.  
 Window Washing – The contractor is expected to arrive within the next two weeks.  
 Main Function Room Floor Waxing – Completed. 
 Pollinator Garden – No report. 
Ms. Doherty also mentioned the following:  
 
*She will be contacting “New Hampshire Blinds” for a quote on installing blinds in the upper windows of the 
large function room. 
*The Facilities Manger will be contacting the electrician for lighting in the cupula which will not be completed 
until Spring/Summer 2025. 
*The facilities department does not have a budget for each Town building but rather one large budget to be 
utilized amongst all of the buildings. 
===PAGE 3===
Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty announced all upcoming events at the LAAC for the month of October 
through the first week of November. 
Eagle House Supporters Report:  Discussed under New Business 
Notices & Communications: None 
Board Comment:  
Members would like to have a revised COA board member for the next meeting. 
Ms. Beale reminded all to review their Medicare options during Open Enrollment season. 
Members were reminded that Special Town Meeting will be held on November 12, 2024, 7PM at Lunenburg   
High School/Middle School. 
Adjournment:  A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried. 
Meeting adjourned at 10:47AM 
 
Respectfully submitted by Susan Doherty 
 