===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                                            Minutes Approved at the 8/13/2024 Meeting            
Meeting Minutes 
July 16, 2024 
 
CALL TO ORDER      Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:33 am. 
 
PRESENT     Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Susan Doherty (Director), Pete Lincoln, Jim McGuigan, Jane Rabbitt, 
Helen Balcom, Diane Nowd, Cathy Beale, Elena Christopher & Ana Lockwood. 
 
EXCUSED     Susan Sullivan & Judy Tarbell 
 
GUESTS    Heather Lemieux (Town Manager), Ceasar Nuzzolo 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS    Ms. Lincoln read a thank you card that was given to the COA by Betty DiGiacomo. Plans 
for a new parking lot and kitchen expansion were also discussed.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT      No comment 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL     Mr. Lincoln motioned to approve the June 11, 2024 minutes. Ms. Lockwood seconded 
the motion. All approved and motion carried.  
 
NEW BUSINESS    
1. Friends of Marshall Park 
Ms. Lockwood discussed creating a website to support Friends of Marshall Park. She discussed what she 
would like Marshall Park to look like in the future. Some ideas were ADA walking trails, 2 dog parks and 
additional parking. Completion for the project is expected to be November 2026. 
2. Volunteer Appreciation Day – Friday September 20, 2024, 11:30 AM 
To honor the many volunteers here at the Council of Aging, we will have Daniel Clark the Singing State Trooper 
for entertainment. The Lunenburg Police & Fire Departments will be cooking hamburgers & hotdogs. Also, Ms. 
Doherty has invited the officials from the Executive Office of Elder Affairs to attend the celebration.  There will 
also be raffles for prize baskets coordinated by Ms. Balcom. 
3. Elevator Installation Discussion 
Mr. Lincoln discussed possibly installing a free-standing elevator. Cost for the elevator project would be 
$40,000. It was noted that the free-standing elevator has not been approved for commercial use yet, only 
private.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS   
1. Lunenburg Senior Tax Relief   ~ No update 
2. Lunenburg 300th Celebration  ~ Mr. Lincoln discussed having a fireworks show behind the T.C. 
Passios Building. 
3. Boston Post Cane ~ Ms. Doherty has reached out to potential recipients of the Boston Post Cane.  
Unfortunately, no one is responsive to receiving the award.  
4. Lunenburg Master Plan ~  No report 
 
DIRECTOR’S REPORT   
• FY25 COA Budget Request for Special Fall Meeting  
Ms. Doherty has requested expanded hours for the Meal Site Manager.  She has also requested that 
the Outreach Coordinator be changed from a grade 8 to a grade 9. 
 
 
• COA Revolving Fund for Meal Site 
===PAGE 2===
 
 
Our new accountant Ezequiel Ayala suggested working with Hannaford to obtain a credit account for 
the Meal Site Manager to purchase groceries for the kitchen.  
• New Payroll Schedule  ~ Effective June 12th payroll has been adjusted so that all employees will be 
on the same pay schedule.  
• Capital Plan  ~ Parking lot. 
• Generator ~ Should be completed by September 2024.  
• Roof Repair ~ We are still waiting for bids to come in per Town Manager Heather Lemieux.  
• Parking Lot ~ Previously discussed.  
• Building & Grounds Report ~ Ms.Doherty reports that the shuffleboard court is complete.  
• Patio Completion Timeline ~ complete 
• Bocce Court ~ Ms. Doherty spoke with Dave MacDonald about taking out one side of the bocce court 
to make it handicap accessible. Ms. Doherty discussed having sail shades installed in the bocce 
court area.  
 
UPCOMING EVENTS      Ms. Doherty reviewed the upcoming events for August and the remainder of July.  
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTER’S REPORT     Mr. Toale is trying to recruit people to help out with fund raising 
efforts. The next meeting will be sometime in September.  
 
NOTICES & COMMUNICATIONS      Ms. Lincoln  read Ms. Doherty’s letter of resignation. Her last day will be 
12/31/24. 
 
BOARD COMMENT    
• Ms. Lockwood discussed the possibility of filming future COA meetings.  
• Mr. Lincoln discussed having the Council on Aging own their own van and plan day trips to attract 
more people to the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center.  
• Ms. Balcom suggested starting a Bridge Club.    
• Ms. Lincoln suggested that the title of “Council on Aging Director” be changed because it caused 
confusion with the title “Council on Aging Chairperson.  After due diligent discussion all agreed to 
table this suggestion for the time being. 
• Ms. Lincoln informed the board that she will be presenting ARPA fund requests to the Selectboard 
that will include plans for kitchen expansion, parking lot and elevator installation. 
•  Board members discussed helping with Volunteer Recognition preparations by sharing the task of 
inviting and mailing invites to volunteers and making gift baskets for a free drawing for those who 
attend the event. 
 
 
ADJOURNMENT      Mr. Lincoln motioned to adjourn the meeting. Ms. Balcom seconded the motion. All 
approved and the  motion was carried. The meeting adjourned at 11:44 AM.  
 
UPCOMING MEETING SCHEDULE    
Next  Meeting: Tuesday, August 13, 2024 ~ 9:30 AM 
 
*MEETING CANCELLATION POLICY: 
If the COA board is unable to meet on the regularly scheduled 2nd Tuesday of the month, the  meeting will be rescheduled to the 
following Tuesday.  
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted,  
 
Michele Beauvais 
 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 