===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Aging                               Minutes Approved at 3/12/2024 COA Meeting 
Meeting Minutes                                                                            
February 20, 2024 
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:35AM 
Present Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Susan Doherty (Director), Pete Lincoln, Diane Nowd, Helen Balcom,     
Jim McGuigan, Cathy Beale, Jane Rabbitt, Susan O’Sullivan. 
Excused Judy Tarbell and Betty DiGiacamo 
Guests Lunenburg Selectperson, Lou Franco 
Announcements Ms. Lincoln announced that Marilyn Poor, potential Council on Aging (COA) board member, 
will no longer be able to join the board due to personal reasons. 
Public Comment None 
Minutes Approval Jim McGuigan moved to accept the minutes of the December 12,2023 COA meeting. 
Susan O’Sullivan seconded the motion. All approved motion, carried. 
NEW BUSINESS   
     1.  Director Retirement Announcement:  Ms. Doherty announced that after 30 years of service to the 
Town of Lunenburg, she will be retiring on December 31, 2024. 
     2.  Council on Aging Awards Placement:  Ms. Lincoln requested that board members visit the large 
function room to view the newly placed COA award plaques and stated that she wanted them hung in there so 
that anyone visiting could see all the accolades that the COA has received through the years. 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Discussion Lunenburg Master Plan: Ms. Lincoln reported that the “Plan Lunenburg” meeting which 
was held at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center on February 1, 2024, was well attended and there was 
a better representation of our Lunenburg elders present than at previous meetings. A third survey is in 
the process of being developed gearing more questions towards people age 60+. 
2. Discussion Lunenburg Senior Tax Relief: None 
3. Council on Aging Board Members: There are still members of the COA board who cannot access 
their town emails.  Ms. Doherty will contact SUZOR IT and request that a representative come to the 
next meeting. 
4. Lunenburg 300th Celebration: Mr. Lincoln stated that there would be a meeting of the 300th committee 
on the following Monday and that an article was placed in the Lunenburg Ledger explaining the charge 
of the committee.  He would like the COA members to think of events that could be held at the LAAC to 
commemorate the upcoming celebration. 
5. Council on Aging Board Member Opening: Ms. Lincoln mentioned that Betty DiGiacomo will not be 
returning to the board when her term ends in June 2024. 
6. Discussion Potential LAAC Recreation Area Programs: Ms. Doherty informed the board that she 
has several “Summer Concerts” planned for the recreation area.  Opening the season will be the 
Sunshine Boys on Friday May 29th at 1:30PM. An official advertising poster is being developed and will 
be shared with the board upon completion of schedules.  
The Volunteer Cookout will be held on Friday September 20th at 11:30AM. Lunenburg Police and Fire 
have agreed to grill for us, and the special guest entertainment will be the “Singing State Trooper”. 
7. Council on Aging Logo Choices: Ms. Lincoln has asked Lauren Barnack of the Lunenburg Business 
Association to help design a new logo for the COA.  Ms. Barnack had provided, via email, multiple 
designs that the board reviewed.  Members commented on the designs which included font, color 
choices, and using an eagle vs. a chickadee in design.  The chickadee won the vote of the board 5-3 
===PAGE 2===
and members liked a darker blue font on design number 6.  Ms. Lincoln will communicate the requests 
to Ms. Barnack and will bring the changes back for review at the next meeting. 
8. Mass General Law Regarding Councils on Aging: Ms. Lincoln distributed copies of the 
Massachusetts General Law (Part I, Title VII, Chapter 40, Section 8) Regarding Council on Aging, 
Establishment, Annual Reports, Recommendations by Department, Clerks and Employees for board 
members to review.  Discussion ensued where board members thought that the law was “muddy”.  A 
copy of this document will be added to the board member orientation packet.  Board members were 
encouraged to think of changes that they would like to see in the Town Charter regarding the Council 
on Aging for the next go around with the Town Charter. 
9. FY25 COA Budget: Ms. Doherty informed the board that the Fin/Com budget meeting with the COA 
will be on Thursday February 22nd at 7:30PM. Ms. Lincoln will also attend the meeting. 
DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
 Day Change for Bingo/New Programming:  The last day for Wednesday Bingo will be on March 13th. 
Bingo will be moving to the last Monday of each month beginning on April 29th at 1PM.  
Wednesday afternoons will see the return of Line Dancing on March 20th at 2PM as a permanent 
program. 
Qigong will become a permanent Thursday program beginning on April 4th at 2PM. 
 2024 Music Venu Bookings/Volunteer Recognition Cookout: Discussed under Potential LAAC 
Programs. 
 Capital Plan:  The generator is currently on order and the delivery and installation is 6-8 weeks.   
There is no current information on roof repair in the newer section of the LAAC building. 
 Building & Grounds Report: Ms. Doherty reported that the target date for total completion of the ADA 
recreation area is late spring and early summer. Volunteers will finish the bocce court as soon as the 
area is dry enough to install the sides. A post and beam fence along the boundary of Kids Kingdom was 
installed along with a decorative garden gate at the entry area on the pavilion side. Electricity and 
lighting will be installed in the pavilion and a solar spotlight will be installed on the shed to light the 
game courts.  The ADA door mechanism was installed on the back door leading out to the rec area and 
is waiting for the electrician to complete the project. Ms. Lincoln mentioned that the Chairperson of the 
Parks and Recreation board offered to speak on behalf of the COA to the family who built the new Kids 
Kingdom playground in memory of their son, regarding moving the playground closer towards the T.C. 
Passios building, to make room for a parking area. The cost of the entire project will be submitted to the 
Capital Plan committee as soon as all information that is required for submittal is gathered. 
Upcoming Events: Ms. Doherty announced all upcoming events at the LAAC for February & March. 
Eagle House Supporters Report:  Ms. Doherty relayed that the next meeting for the Eagle House Supporters 
will be on Friday March 8th at 10AM at LAAC and fundraising will be a topic of conversation at this meeting. 
They are also seeking two new members for their board. 
Notices & Communications: None 
Board Comment: None 
Adjournment:  A motion was made and seconded to adjourn the meeting.  All approved, motion carried.  
Meeting adjourned at 11:01AM 
 
Respectfully submitted by Susan Doherty 
 