===PAGE 1===
Minutes approved at 9/9/25 COA Meeting 
 
 
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                         
Meeting Minutes 
July 8, 2025 
 
CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:35am 
Present: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair), Diane Nowd, Susan O’Sullivan, 
Jim McGuigan, Cathy Beale, Ana Lockwood, Lou Franco, Jack Rabbitt 
Excused: Helen Balcom, Elena Christopher 
Guests: Barbara Coulombe (Eagle House Supporters Vice President), Deb Goodsell (COA 
Director), Caesar Nuzzolo (Select Board Liaison) 
 
ANNOUNCEMENTS: Ms. Lincoln welcomed new members Lou Franco and Jack Rabbitt. Ms. 
Lincoln read thank you notes from Judy Tarbell and Pete Lincoln.  
 
PUBLIC COMMENT: none 
 
BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Lincoln shared that Helen Balcom is still not well. She has been in the 
hospital and rehab but is now home. She may need some help with rides. Mr. Rabbitt noted that 
he is an ambassador for Margaret Scarsdale and can bring forth concerns noted. Ms. Lincoln 
mentioned that the board should consider writing a formal request to Unitil regarding electric 
prices and the hardship that it creates for older adults. Mr. Nuzzolo noted that the Select Board 
would be willing to sign on to that letter. Mr. Rabbitt also reported that the first property tax 
deferral application will be in front of the Board of Assessors later this afternoon. Ms. Lockwood 
thanked Mr. Rabbitt for his advocacy. 
 
MINUTES APPROVAL: Ms. O’Sullivan moved to accept the minutes. It was seconded by Mr. 
McGuigan. All approved, motion was carried.  
 
NEW BUSINESS 
1. Welcome of new Members: Lou Franco and Jack Rabbitt are now on the COA Board. 
They will need to be added to the list to receive minutes. Board Orientation Packets will 
also be given to them by the next meeting.  
2. Building Permits for Seniors: Ms. Lockwood is working on this. She would like to get 
feedback from the group as to the parameters that should be used for this program. The 
intent of the program is to provide some financial relief to seniors as well as to educate on 
the need for a building permit and the protections that are provided when a permit is 
obtained. Mr. Franco asked how many permits are currently applied for each year as well 
as the current cost of a permit. Mr. Nuzzolo asked if this is to be means tested or would 
apply from a certain age up. Ms. Rabbitt noted that it would be helpful for seniors to have 
a list of contractors who can work on small jobs. Mr. Rabbitt said we should look at what 
parameters are used by the other towns who are offering this benefit. Discussion ensued 
on making this for ages sixty-five and older as well as setting a construction value limit 
such as $10,000.  
 
===PAGE 2===
Minutes approved at 9/9/25 COA Meeting 
 
 
3. Kiosk: The posters have been designed but have not been printed yet due to staffing 
changes. It was requested that we could wait on the staffing poster, but the others should 
get printed. 
4. Kitchen Staffing: Due to medical issues, the center currently has no staff in the kitchen. 
Ms. Goodsell noted that interviews start tomorrow for temporary positions in the kitchen.  
 
CURRENT BUSINESS 
1. Financial Reports: None this month 
2. Senior Advisory Team for Task Force for Healthcare: No update currently 
3. Updates on local hospital services: None 
4. Kitchen Volunteers: Due to a lack of staff, volunteers are needed to assist with meal prep 
and serving. Two volunteers are needed for Tuesday, one on Wednesday, and two on 
Thursday. 
5. Lula Lift: Ms. Goodsell reported that the Building Inspector and the Facilities Manager 
came to the center to see about the options for a lift and she is currently waiting for a 
report. 
6. Bucky’s Corner: Ms. Rabbitt and Ms. Beale are looking at other options. They would like 
to discuss this further with the Director and will present options at the next meeting. 
7. Programming for added Evening Hours: Director noted upcoming evening programs are 
as follows: Cooking for one on 8/4, Close encounters with Aliens on 8/11, Henna designs 
8/18, and a 6-week course on Healing Herbs starting in September. 
8. Update on Lunenburg Master Plan Meeting: Next meeting is tomorrow night – July 9th. 
9. Sand for Seniors Program: Olivia, from the Fire Dept, is working on this. 
 
DIRECTORS REPORT 
Upcoming Programs and Events: Ms. Goodsell reviewed the upcoming events for the remainder 
of July, August and into September. There are a few new programs starting this week: Qigong and 
Life after Loss grief support. UMass will be presenting on “Aging Gracefully”. The Gloucester 
Harbor cruise is now full, and we had nine signups from Lunenburg. The Director also noted that 
we are looking for drivers for Meals on Wheels. We need a regular Thursday driver and back-up 
drivers. 
 
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: None this month 
 
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: None   
 
BOARD COMMENT Ms. Lincoln reported that longtime resident, Fran Therrien will be turning 100 
in August. She is looking to induct her into the Century Club with a ceremony hopefully in 
September. Ms. Goodsell reported that check in’s on My Senior Center and Lunch Participation 
are up in the last 6 months. 
 
ADJOURNEMENT A motion to adjourn was made by Ms. Lockwood and seconded by Ms. 
O’Sullivan. It passed unanimously.  
 
===PAGE 3===
Minutes approved at 9/9/25 COA Meeting 
 
 
 
 
 