===PAGE 1===
  Minutes approved at 5/13/25 COA Meeting 
Lunenburg Council on Aging 
Meeting Minutes 
April 8, 2025 
 
CALL TO ORDER: Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:40 AM. 
Present:  Deb Lincoln (chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice Chairperson), Ana Lockwood, Diane Nowd, Elena 
Christopher, Susan O’Sullivan, Jim McGuigan, Cathy Beale, Judy Tarbell, Barbara Coulombe (Eagle House 
Supporters). 
Excused: Peter Lincoln, Helen Balcom. 
Announcements: Lou Franco has applied to become a member of The COA when the upcoming 
resignations occur.  
Public Comment: None 
Board Comment: Susan O’Sullivan reported that UMass Memorial Health announced it is planning to 
build a new Satellite emergency facility (SEF) in the Nashoba Valley region of North Central 
Massachusetts following the closure of Nashoba Valley Medical Center in Ayer. It is also exploring 
options for certain imaging services. They were unable to use the former hospital site in Ayer, now 
owned by Apollo Global Management. The closure has created challenges for residents, with longer 
ambulance rides and increased strain on local emergency services and other hospitals. The Governor has 
formed a Nashoba Valley Working group (EOHS) to work on this. A proposed location of the new facility 
is being considered at 490 Main Street in Groton MA. UMass hopes to have the SEF constructed and 
operational by the end of 2026, pending approval from the Mass Dept. of Public Health (DPH). UMass 
needs to go before the Groton Planning Board and Conservation Commission to gain approval for its site 
plan. 
Ana Lockwood wanted to make sure that we all knew that there is a Parks Commission Meeting 4-9-
2025 at TCP at 7 PM. The meeting is about Marshall Park Design. All need to be informed of this plan so 
that they can make informed choices at the May 3rd Town meeting. 
Minutes were amended and approved. 
New Business:  
1.  Charles Sanderson is our newest member of the Century Club (100 years old). We will celebrate 
with him on May 5, 2025, at 1 PM. 
2.  Our chairperson, Deb Lincoln asked all to work on ideas to initiate a Senior Health Care Advisory 
Team to assist Seniors with navigating the Health Care system. We will discuss next month’s 
meeting. 
3. The Lunenburg Adult Activities Center needs more space for programs. The COA made and 
passed a motion to put on the 2027 Capital Plan a feasibility study to add a small elevator to be 
able to access the second floor of the Eagle House. 
Current Business: 
1. Our director reported that the town’s FY26   Senior center budget.  
We are losing a part-time Outreach Coordinator and moving two kitchen aides from the formula 
grant to the town budget, as well as updating the Meal Site Manager from part-time to full-time. 
Increase in Program Budget by $3,000 
The plans for FY 2027 are to hire a program coordinator and an Assistant director/Outreach 
coordinator by increasing the grade for that person. 
2. The Veteran’s breakfast on April 11th will honor Charles Sanderson, 10 years old and a WWll 
Veteran. 
3. There will be a Master Plan meeting on April 9,2025. 
4. 300th town Anniversary plan, No updates. 
5. Parking lot, no updates. 
===PAGE 2===
  Minutes approved at 5/13/25 COA Meeting 
 
Director’s Report: 
1. The kitchen is almost completed. The updates on the electrical and plumbing are almost 
complete. We should be able to utilize the kitchen by the end of the week. 
2. The shades are in and now can be operated electrically. 
Elsa’s Watson’s retirement celebration will be on April 18, 2025, at 9 AM. 
            There will be a felting class on April 16 at 5 PM. 
             We now have free passes available for 6 people to visit the Tower Hill Botanical Garden. 
             There will be a Vendors fair sponsored by the Lunenburg Business Association on May 10, 2025. 
             The flower arranging class will be on May 7, 2025, at 5 PM. 
A bus trip is planned for July to the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum. The date is not yet 
determined. 
Eagle House Supporters Report: 
Barbara Coulomb reported that the Supporters now accept VENMO for their fundraiser events. Their 
first event is the membership fundraiser event. They are also participating in the Vendor’s Fair and Lynn 
Walsh has generously offered to fund an Ice Cream Truck. 
Notices and Communications: None 
Board Comment: None 
Adjournment: Meeting was adjourned at 10:36. Vote was unanimous. 
 
Upcoming Meeting Schedule: Next meeting is scheduled for May 13, 2025. 
 