
Lunenburg Council on Aging                                        
Meeting Minutes
November 18, 2025

CALL TO ORDER Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order at 9:41am.
Present: Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair), Diane Nowd, Jim McGuigan, Cathy Beale, Lou Franco, Elena Christopher, Ana Lockwood, Susan O’Sullivan, 
Excused: Helen Balcom, Jack Rabbitt
Guests: Deb Goodsell (COA Director) 

ANNOUNCEMENTS: Ms. Lincoln reached out to our MA House and Senate Representatives, and they are considering attending a future meeting.

PUBLIC COMMENT: none

BOARD COMMENT: 
Mr. Franco brought to the attention of the board that there is an article for Special Town Meeting that allows for future warrant booklets not to be mailed and to be available electronically. Board discussion was on the difficulties this may place on seniors. Ms. Lockwood said that the Finance Committee did not vote to support this article as they felt there was more need for public discussion on this article. 

Ms. Rabbitt was at UMass Memorial and noted that there is discounted parking for those with a Handicap Placard.

MINUTES APPROVAL: Minutes from October meeting were motioned for approval by Ms. O’Sullivan, seconded by Mr. Franco, passed unanimously. 

NEW BUSINESS
Feedback on By-laws: Ms. Beale noted a discrepancy between the Charter and Bylaws on wording of appointing and having the COA be involved in the hiring of a COA Director. When reviewing the Charter that wording was stuck out and now that they are looking at the Bylaws that wording is in there and the board indicated a desire to keep it. Ms. Lincoln noted she is unaware if the two must match and would like to request additional information from the Select Board or Town Manager before deciding on final commentary. Board has reviewed it and is flagging that change. 
Festival of Trees: Ms. Lincoln thanked the board members for working on a tree for this event. 
COA Board Facebook Page: Ms. Lincoln noted that the COA Board might want to start a Facebook page. Mr. Franco and Ms. Lincoln will work together to create this. Board members all noted they were in favor.
Staffing Update: Ms. Goodsell, Director, noted that Mr. McGuigan has resigned as a Van Driver and was thanked for his many years of service. The town is hiring for a per diem driver to work on an on-call basis. Meal site manager position has also been advertised and is now a Union position and is no longer on the SAP. Ms. Lockwood asked for clarification on the role of that position. Ms. Goodsell noted that she would like to offer daily meals including an evening meal. 
Center Hours: Ms. Goodsell noted that hours have changed for the fall/winter months. Two hours have been shifted from Monday nights to Friday afternoons. 
Holiday Party: The board noted that they would like to have a holiday party at their next meeting. Ms. Rabbitt suggested that instead of doing an ornament swap they would make a donation to the Lunenburg Food Pantry as a board.

CURRENT BUSINESS
Financial Reports: None at this time. 
Caregiver Resource Connection: Third session is tomorrow at 11:30am. Keith Aubin from Integrity Medicare will present and bring lunch from Il Forno.
Master Plan Review: Ms. Lincoln received another email from Kim Duffy asking for more input. Beyond wanting an Assisted Living, and tax support for seniors, Ms. Lincoln recommended support for the increased parking lot with more handicapped spaces, support for staffing needs and a funded meal site. Ms. Lockwood noted a need for more walkable space in town as an investment in the health of the community. Ms. Rabbitt mentioned a need for funded respite care. Ms. Goodsell noted that there are programs to that provide that service and that there is some funding for that under Medicare. Ms. Beale moved to have Ms. Lincoln report back to the Master Plan that the as well as the Assisted Living and tax relief for seniors, the COA would like to include funding for a parking lot, funding for meals and programs, and ADA walkable spaces in town. Seconded by Ms. O’Sullivan. Vote was unanimous in favor. 
Update on local hospital services: no new updates noted.
Furnishings for lobby areas: Ms. Rabbitt, Ms. Beale and Ms. Goodsell met with a representative from Blockhouse furniture. They received quotes for four tables at 32” square, sixteen chairs, five lounge chairs and side tables. Pricing for those is approximately $22k. Ms. Beale noted that the COA has a gift fund that has most of the funding for the furniture, and the difference could come out of the formula grant. 
TRI Board Report follow up: Ms. Goodsell had no further comment at this time. Ms. Lockwood suggested that maybe she could meet with Director offline prior to the budget meeting presentation for Finance Committee regarding the questions she had previously shared with the board. Ms. Beale had some follow-up questions for Ms. Lockwood regarding grants and data. Ms. Lockwood indicated that most grants are recurring each year and can be planned for, and regarding data she is looking for year-over-year data to support staffing increases. 
41A Update: Mr. Rabbitt was not present to give an update. Ms. Lockwood had some questions regarding the financial impact. Questions will be deferred to a later meeting when Mr. Rabbitt can be present. 

DIRECTORS REPORT
Upcoming Programs and Events: Ms. Goodsell reported on upcoming planned programs such as Mental Health Concerns as we age and Healthy Tonics. Ms. Goodsell gave an update on recent classes and detailed the upcoming events for the remainder of November and into December. 

EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT: no report but Ms. Lincoln thanked them for the Festival of Trees.

NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS: none

BOARD COMMENT: Ms. Lockwood reported that Special Town Meeting is tonight and encouraged all to come and vote. Ms. Lincoln thanked the board for all the work they do.

ADJOURNEMENT: A motion to adjourn at 11:10am was made by Ms. Lockwood and seconded by Mr. Franco. It passed unanimously. 














