===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Council on Agin g
Meeting Minutes
November 18,  2025
CALL TO ORDER  Chairperson Deb Lincoln called the meeting to order  at 9:41am .
Present : Deb Lincoln (Chairperson), Jane Rabbitt (Vice-Chair ), Diane Nowd, Jim 
McGuigan , Cathy Beale, Lou Franco, Elena Christopher , Ana Lockwood , Susan 
O ’Sullivan ,
Excused:  Helen Balcom , Jack Rabbitt
Guests:  Deb Goodsell (COA Director)
ANNOUNCEMENTS : Ms. Lincoln reach ed out to our MA H ouse and S enate 
Representatives,  and they are considering attending a future meeting.
PUBLIC COMMENT : none
BOARD COMMENT :
Mr. Franco  brought to the attention of the board that there is an  article for Special Town 
Meeting that allows for future warrant booklets not to  be mailed  and to be available 
electronically. Board discussion was  on the difficul ties  this may  place on  seniors . Ms. 
Lockwood  said  that the Finance Committee did not  vote to support this article as they 
felt there was more need for public discussion on this article.
Ms. Rabbitt was at U M ass Memorial and noted that there is discounted parking for those
with a Handicap Placard .
MINUTES APPROVAL : M inutes from October meeting were motioned for approval 
by  Ms. O ’Sullivan , seconded b y  Mr. Franco , passed unanimously.
NEW BUSINESS
1. Feedback on By-laws : Ms. Beale  noted a discrepancy between the Charter and 
Bylaws  on wording of appointing and having the COA be involved in the hiring of 
a COA Director. When reviewing the Charter that wording was stuck out and now 
that they are looking at the B ylaws th at wording is in there and the  board 
indicated a desire to  keep it.  Ms. Lincoln noted  she  is unaware if the two must  
match and would like to request additional information from the Select Board  or 
T own Manager  before deciding on final commentary. Board has reviewed it and 
is flagging that change .
2. Festival of Trees : Ms. Lincoln  thanked the board members for working on a tree
for this event. 
3. COA Board Facebook Page : Ms. Lincoln  noted that the COA Board might want 
to start a Facebook page. Mr. Franco  and Ms. Lincoln  wi ll  work together to create
this. Board members all noted they were in favor.
4. Staffing Update : Ms.  Goodsell, Director , noted that Mr. McGuigan has resigned 
as a Van Driver and was thanked for his many years of service. The t own is hiring
for a per diem driver to work on an on-call  basis. Meal site manager position has 
also been advertised  and is now  a  Union  position  and is no longer on the SAP. 
===PAGE 2===
Ms. Lockwood  asked for clarification on the role of that position.  Ms. Goodsell 
noted that she would like to offer daily meals including an evening meal.
5. Center Hours : Ms. Goodsell noted that hours have changed for the fall/winter 
months. Two hours have been shifted from Monday nights to Friday afternoons.
6. Holiday Party : The board noted that they would like to have a holiday party at 
their next meeting. Ms. Rabbitt  suggested that instead of doing an ornament 
swap they would make a donation to the Lunenburg Food Pantry as a board.
CURRENT  BUSINESS
1. Financial Reports:  None at this time.
2. Caregiver Resource Connection : Third session is tomorrow at 11:30 am . Keith 
Aubin from Integrity Medicare will present  and bring lunch from Il Forno.
3. Master Plan Review: Ms. Lincoln  received another email from Kim Duffy asking 
for more input. Beyond wanting an Assisted Living , and tax support for seniors , 
Ms. Lincoln  recommended support for the increased parking lot  with more 
handicapped spaces , support for  s taffing needs and a f unded meal site. Ms. 
Lockwood  noted a need  for more walkable space in town  as an investment in the 
health of the community. Ms. Rabbitt  mentioned a need for funded respite care . 
Ms. Goodsell  noted that there are programs to that provide that service and that 
there is  some funding for that under Medicare. Ms. Beale  moved to have Ms. 
Lincoln report back to the Master Plan that the as well as the Assisted Living 
and tax relief for seniors , the COA would like to include funding for a parking 
lot, funding for meals and programs , and ADA walkable spaces in tow n . 
S econded by Ms. O ’Sullivan. Vote was unanimous in favor.
4. Update on local hospital services : no new updates noted.
5. Furnishings for lobby areas : Ms. Rabbitt, Ms. Beale and Ms. Goodsell  met with  a
representative from  Blockhouse furniture. They received qu otes for four  tables at 
32 ” square, sixteen  chairs, five  lounge chairs and side tables. Pricing for those is  
approximately $22k. Ms. Beale noted that the COA  has a gift fund that has most 
of the  funding for t he furniture, and the difference could come out of the formula 
grant. 
6. TRI Board Report follow up : Ms. Goodsell  had no further comment at this time. 
Ms. Lockwood  suggested that maybe she could meet with Director offline  prior to 
the budget meeting presentation for Finance Committee  r egarding the questions 
she had previously shared with the board . Ms. Beale  had some follow-up  
questions for Ms. Lockwood  regarding grants and data . Ms. Lockwood i ndicated 
that most grants are re curring each year and can be planned for , and regarding 
data she is looking for year-over-year  data to support staffing increases.
7. 41A Update : Mr. Rabbitt was not present to give an update. Ms. Lockwood had 
some questions regarding the financial impact . Questions will be deferred to a 
later meeting when Mr. Rabbitt can be present. 
DIRECTORS REPORT
1. Up coming Pr ograms  and Ev ents : Ms. Goodsell reported on upcoming planned 
programs  such as Mental Health Concerns as we age and H ealthy T onics.  Ms. 
Goodsell gave an update on recent classes and detailed the upcoming events for
the remainder  of  November and into Dec em ber .
===PAGE 3===
EAGLE HOUSE SUPPORTERS REPORT : no report but Ms. Lincoln thanked them for 
the Festival of Trees .
NOTICES AND COMMUNICATIONS : none
BOARD COMMENT : Ms. Lockwood  reported that Special Town Meeting is tonight and 
encouraged all to come and vote . Ms. Lincoln thanked the board for all the work they do .
ADJOURNEMENT : A motion to adjourn at 11:10 am  was made by Ms. Lockwood  and 
seconded  by  Mr. Franco . It passed unanimously.