===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
December 17, 2009 
Meeting was called to order at 7:03 pm 
 
Attending: John Mara, Mike Kelly, Len Smetana, Amy Sadkin, Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Deb Chapdelaine, Jeanne 
Raboin 
 
 
1. Public Comment: John read a thank you note from Sandy Mailloux. 
2. New Business: 
a. November 19, 2009 minutes approved as amended. 
b. December 9, 2009 minutes accepted as written. 
3. Director’s Report (please see full report for details): 
a. Discussion of revisions and how these were arrived at to FY10 LPL Budget:  
i. New budget for FY10 is $303,099 representing an 8.2% cut ($27, 163) from original 
appropriation. Please see budget sheet FY10 Library Expense Analysis Nov-09 
MONTH #5 for detailed line item cuts. 
              b. Meeting to discuss capitol planning is scheduled for December 22, 2009. Amy will be requesting ` 
  seal coating the parking lot, technology and new carpeting in Main Hall. 
 c. Staff Update:  
          i. The insurance carrier doesn’t require the building to have a certain number of staff to meet 
insurance requirements. LPL will always have two (2) staff members in attendance during open 
hours.  
          ii. Technology/Reference position: More than a dozen applications. 
                                         iii. Kate and Sherri will each work 5 additional hours until new position hired. 
         iv. Karen has received a grant; Sherry attended two workshops on interlibrary   loan and 
databases; Amy attended an Excel spreadsheet workshop. 
           d. Facilities: Two instances of bathroom vandalism; cleaned-up and haven’t reoccurred 
e. Technology Update: head of technology suggests the library purchase a server and a tape backup   
system. This would give the network administrator almost total control of the network and all devices 
attached to it. Please see Computer Network report for details. 
f. Programming: Karen has many programs planned for the Christmas break; Kate has the book club 
and Amy is working on booking the Swing Dance lessons. 
g. Strategic Planning: Amy is joining with other public library directors to discuss and work on strategic 
planning; they are visiting other libraries and will be developing a library questionnaire.  
h. Worker’s Credit Union: Gordon Wetmore will be completing the pledge by the end of the year 
(2009). 
i. Safety: MBLC is looking into libraries being used as FEMA centers during emergencies.  
4. Mileage: Motion made and passed to use up to $1,000 out of All-Purpose Trust Funds for staff travel      
mileage. 
5. Policy Review: 
        a. Operational Safety Policy: Motion made and passed to accept policy as amended. 
        b. Noelle tells board that the Policy Sub-group will be meeting January 2010.  
6. Staff Recognition gifts were delivered. 
7. Other: Accolades, thanks and a very fond farewell to Mike Kelly, and his wonderful wife, Laurie, as he 
resigns from the LPL Board of Trustees to head to South Carolina. 
 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:08 pm. 
 
Next meeting: January 21, 2010 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary, Lunenburg Public Library Board of Trustees 
 