===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
May 21, 2009 
Meeting was called to order at 7:12 p.m. 
 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Amy Sadkin, Deb Chapdelaine, Mike Kelly, Jeanne Raboin 
 
Absent: John Mara 
 
Accolades, several laurel wreaths, hearty ‘huzzahs’ and many, many VERY warm and grateful thanks to the departing 
trustees…Mary Ann, Linda, Rich. 
 
And then, a very warm welcome to the new trustees, Noelle Bodkin and Lisa Krowitz! 
 
Secretary’s Report: Motion made and passed to accept as amended. 
 
Director’s Report: Please see Amy’s handout for details 
• Circulation rates: Mike suggests charting the circulation rates with the FTE’s. Trustees agree to he and Amy 
working together to provide these types of statistics for next budget year.  
• Budget is on track for this fiscal year 
• Library Account Balances: discussion about how and why to use these monies. Trustees decide to look at 
these statements quarterly.  
• Discussion about preparing a ppt presentation highlighting the Library’s accomplishments. This can be used 
for presentations to the Selectmen, Kerry, Finance, town meeting, etc. 
 
Endowment Resolution and Investment Policy and Proposed Endowment Items for FY10 document 
• The Trustees are informed that the Endowment Policy is completed and will be voted on by the Friends of 
LPL Executive Board at the next meeting (June 11, 2009). At this time the Friend’s Board expects to modify 
the Friends of LPL Charter, which will then be posted for public comment. It will then be voted on and ratified 
at the Annual Meeting on July 17, 2009. 
• Please see Amy’s list of proposed endowment items. Regarding item #3, Mike will research vertical phone 
systems. 
 
Patron Behavior Policy is now called Appropriate Library Use Policy. Motion made and passed to accept the 
Appropriate Library Use Policy as amended. 
 
Friends of LPL 
• A reminder that the June Book & Bake Sale will be held Saturday, June 6, from 9-2. Any and all are welcome 
to come and help. 
• Please see above for Endowment. Friends are aware of the importance of growing the endowment. 
• Friends Annual Meeting is Friday, July 17, 6 pm at LPL. 
 
Agenda for the June trustees meeting discussed. Topics such as new officers, committees will be placed on agenda. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:55 pm. 
Next meeting: June 18, 2009 7 pm 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Jeanne Raboin 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
 