===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
January 22, 2009 
Meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m. 
 
Attending: Amy Sadkin, Linda Kennedy, Deb Chapdelaine, Mary Ann Sudolnik, Mike Kelly, 
Jeanne Raboin (late) 
 
Not Attending: John Mara 
 
Public Comment: None 
 
Minutes were unanimously approved as amended. 
 
Director’s Report (see Director’s Report for in-depth information) 
 Technology Update: New computer use policy updated on library computers. Derek will 
be working on resolving some outstanding computer issues. 
 
 Staff Update: Staff meeting on January 5. Amy reviewed internal policy for snow days, 
discussed Fitchburg decertification and computer issues. Amy will be using same staff evaluation 
forms as last year, the ones she created and the standard union check-list. Also discussed future 
LPL goals; regarding a common message to be sent to public Amy suggested using “LPL is a 
vital part of the town as an information source and community center.” Amy also stressed good 
customer service. 
  
Budget/Circulation: Circulation was up significantly despite the December storms and 
holidays. Old Mutual Account continues to lose money. According to the MBLC, Lunenburg’s 
dropped under 10,000 in FY07, meaning that we have to increase our library materials 
expenditure back to 19%. 
• $5,000 for library materials from the Revolving Fund 
• If a staff person resigns, libra ry loses $, not the position. 
 
Programs: Knitting, computer classes, and Mother Goose on the Loose programs going 
well; Friends Cultural Horizons program to be reported on later in the minutes. 
 
Facilities: Not much damage to LPL during December ice storm, some tree limb and 
small bush damage. Library alarm needed new battery, Simplex replaced, charged to 
Lunenburg DPW.  
 
Friends & Endowment Committee Updates: Friends kicked off the Cultural Horizons: A 
Look at Culture from the Middle East, with George the Storyteller on January 17. Jeanne 
invited all Trustees to assist with the set-up/breakdown and to attend. The Endowment 
Committee on January 3 and will meet again January 24. The endowment resolution and 
investment policy is nearing completion. At the suggestion of Rich Letarte, the Friends 
Executive Board will be discussing investing some of the interest gained from the Sandra 
Lane Endowment.  
 
Other: Amy purchased a new edition of the World Book Encyclopedia in hard copy; older 
copies sent to Victoria Whipple at TC Passios; she cancelled the online version since its 
cost was high and had low use. Lunenburg Public Library Spellbinders came in second in 
the Adult Spelling Bee to support the Boys and Girls Clubs. Amy completed the ICMA 
grant application with Kerry and Derek, requesting $54,713 fro the library to implement a 
“Computing Like Crazy at the Lunenburg Public Library” program. (See Director’s Report 
for details) 
 
 
 
===PAGE 2===
New Business 
Fitchburg Public Library: Has officially been decertified, LPL will not be lending to them or 
checking books out to their patrons. Fitchburg Public Library patrons can use our facilities, 
collections and computers. Sign has been placed on the doors explaining policy and listing 
decertified MA libraries that fall under this policy. 
 
Ice Storm Follow-up: Amy shows Trustees photos of ice storm; she spoke to Dan Bourgeois 
about being a more integral, vital part of the community during emergencies. There will be a 
Lunenburg staff meeting concerning emergencies, responses and responsibilities. Mike would 
like the town’s emergency director to present a plan for the LPL Trustees to look at. 
 
Town Budget Update: Amy has not received any additional information from Kerry. 
 
Legislative Breakfast: Will be hosted by LPL on January 20. Amy thinks there will be about 38 
attendees. Asks Trustees to help with setup and cleanup; Friends will provide monies for the 
food.  
 
Rich Letarte: Rich is resigning from the Trustees; sent letter to Trustees dated January 15, 2009. 
Deb will notify the Selectmen; opening will be posted in Town Hall for 10 days; Trustees will then 
meet with Selectmen to nominate recommendations (Deb will send letter to this effect); if more 
than one person expresses interest, then Trustees and Selectmen vote for replacement. Len 
Smetana has expressed interest in serving out Rich’s term. Deb/Mary Ann will look into a gift for 
Rich in appreciation for his many years of service to LPL and the community. 
 
Committee Reports: Amy says that the next policies we need to review are the Art Exhibit and 
Patron Customer Service. Policy committee will meet as soon as possible to work on these. 
 
Jennifer Benson will be holding her office hours in LPL on the third Wednesday of the month from 
5-6:30 p.m. 
 
Dinner to thank the library staff will be January 23, 6:30 p.m. at The Bootlegger. 
 
Motion made and passed to adjourn meeting at 8:40 p.m. 
 
Motion made and passed to go into Executive Session to discuss Director’s Evaluation at 8:41 
p.m.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
 
Jeanne Raboin 
Secretary, Trustee, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 
 