===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
February 19, 2009 
Meeting was called to order at 7:00 p.m. 
 
Attending: Amy Sadkin, Linda Kennedy, Deb Chapdelaine, Mary Ann Sudolnik, Mike Kelly, Len Smetana, John Mara, 
Jeanne Raboin 
 
Public Comment: Mary Ann commented upon and there was discussion about the Gardner Public Library article. 
 
Minutes: Motion made and accepted to approve as amended. 
Motion made and accepted with one abstention to shorten recording of minutes to reflect discussion of 
finances and votes taken. 
 
Executive minutes: Motion made and accepted as amended. 
 
Director’s Report – Please see Director’s Report for details. 
 
Funeral Service for former Lunenburg Fire Chief Dennis Carrier – Town Hall will be closed from 10:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. 
on Monday, February 23, 2009. Motion made and passed to close LPL for the memorial service and funeral. 
 
New Business – Board welcomes Len Smetana who is replacing Rich Letarte. 
 
Budget – CAFO announces that the town is .5 million down for FY09. Amy offered to remove the Reference Librarian 
position taking $8,000 out of this line item. FY10 will see a 3.23% cut to the library budget. Discussion of town budget 
and how it will affect library budget. 
 
Trustee letter – Motion made and passed that the Trustees will write a letter educating the Lunenburg community about 
the role of the Trustees in light of the Boston Globe article concerning the former state senator John A. Brennan Jr. 
Letter to be sent to the Lunenburg Ledger, Sentinel & Enterprise, Globe, MBLC, MLTA, Malden Library Trustees and 
other state reps. (Mary Ann will lead this) 
 
Legislative breakfast was a success. 
 
LPL Board of Trustees – Terms will be up for Mary Ann, Linda and Jeanne. Len will also have to run. Mary Ann and 
Linda will not be running, therefore there will be 4 seats available. Note from Rich was read. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:25 p.m. to go into Executive Session. 
 
Next meeting Thursday, March 19 at 7 p.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 