===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library  
December 16, 2010  
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:30pm 
In attendance: John Mara, Amy Sadkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, Len Smetana and Noelle Bodkin. 
Absent: Kathy Murray and Jeanne Raboin 
 
1. Public Comment: No Public comment 
2. New Business: November 16, 2010 minutes approved as amended 
3. Director’s Report:  
 Circulation is up again (10,256). Meeting room usage is down slightly. People counter recorded 
more than 8000 people/month. Computer usage is estimated at 650 logins/month (PC Reserve 
was down for some time; hence the estimated figure). 
 Salary expenses for Nov. are under budget due to Bonnie’s absence with a broken arm and Jillian 
Fluet joined one month later than planned. Amy expressed concern about staffing levels during 
periods when staff are absent due to illnesses. A minimum of two staff members on site at all times 
has been maintained but during high traffic times this is sub-optimal. The option of soliciting trained 
library staff from other libraries to fill in on a per diem basis ($11-12/per hour) was discussed. Amy 
will look into this. 
 Utility expense is under budget. Book leasing expense looks over budget but is a once a year 
payment and will pan out by the end of the fiscal year. 
 A Dept. Head meeting was held at LPL on 11/22/2010. Town Manager encouraged submission of 
budgets that represent how the department can best serve the needs of the community. 
 Amy met with the Capital Planning Committee on 12/2/2010 to discuss FY2012 requests. She was 
encouraged with regards to her greatest priority, technology updates, but not so reg arding furniture 
reupholstering and carpet replacement. They suggested that she consider repainting one side of 
the building/year. 
 Mass. Library System’s change to an autosort system on 7/1/2011 requires barcode placement on 
the right front cover of all ILL materials. Libraries that do not comply will be charged $0.04/item and 
the items may not be processed as quickly. A barcode duplicator can be purchased for $600 -700 
that will bring our previously barcoded items into compliance. This was deemed a worthwhile 
expense. 
 Evergreen update: With the switchover to this software in the fall every patron’s fine history will be 
deleted. A printout of patrons who owe over a given amount can be requested prior to the 
switchover.  
 Staff update: On 12/14/2010 Karen Weller instructed the staff on the use of the new AED . 
 Programs: The 5 Year Anniversary party/Fine Free Day was a success and netted many ove rdue 
items. $154.10 in fines was waived. Kate’s Make Your Own Holiday Ornament program held at and 
co-sponsored by LHS had 19+ attendees. Gingerbread House Decorating was a hit with the 
children. Regular book/Lego clubs and computer classes are all well attended and will continue into 
2011. 
 Amy sent a letter of intent to MBLC for a $7500 “On the Same Page” LSTA grant for FY12 to fund 
the One Book One Town Reads program. 
 A donation of $881.95 was received and deposited into the Endowment account by the Friends of 
LPL in memory of Margaret Trocano. 
 Due to the closure of all town offices on 12/23/10 LPL will be closed on that day and Union 
employees will be paid. Patty and Jen normally work on alternating Saturdays and so will be paid 
for 12/25 and 1/1 accordingly. 
 The local cable TV channel offered to provide 1 hour/month of library related coverage. 
Suggestions included a tour of the library, recording of library programming and tutorials on the use 
of library resource reservations. 
 Given the forecast of snow Amy asked for direction regarding possible closure o f the LPL next 
week. It was determined that closure or delayed opening of the library will be at the Director’s 
discretion. The public will be notified by an update on the website, local radio and , when possible, a 
notice on the front door. 
===PAGE 2===
 
4. Budget Subcommittee met and reviewed three budget proposals prepared by Amy: FY12 LPL Trustee 
Request, FY12 Level Funded and FY 12 Minimum state Aid (See handout for details). The FY12 LPL 
Trustee Request ($391,550) reflects an increase in payroll and utility expenses due to proposed increased 
staffing levels and opening hours (4 additional) in response to patrons’ requests to open the library on 
Fridays. The FY12 Level Funded (329,791) would require a waiver to maintain accreditation, reduction of 1 
staff member and CWMRS would need to be funded from State Aid. FY12 Minimum State Aid ($346,594 ) 
would involve no change in staffing levels and opening hours; accreditation would be maintained.  The Town 
Manager had suggested at the Dept. heads meeting a possible budget cap of  $369,098 for the LPL which 
would cover the increased staffing levels but not increased opening hours. Sal. Admin. plans and union 
contracts are variables that could alter any of the above budgets. Dick proposed a motion to approve the 
operating budget for LPL FY12 as presented by the Director for a total of $391,550 with the understanding 
that she may make necessary adjustments to accommodate utility and salary variables but the final budget 
should not exceed $391,550. Len seconded the motion and it was passed unanimously. 
5. Other business: An inquiry was made regarding the progress of the installation of a TV at the circulation 
desk. Amy reports that Jen has had some difficulty with this but is still working on it.  
 
 
Meeting adjourned at 7:30pm. 
 
Next meeting: January 20th at 6:30pm 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin 
Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 