===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
November 18, 2010 
Meeting called to order at 6:39 p.m. 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, John Mara, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len 
Smetana 
Guest: Steven Flaherty, Lunenburg High School Student Council 
Public Comment: Steven Flaherty proposed a school social meeting sponsored by the LHS Student Council to be held 
at Lunenburg Public Library either the 1st or 2nd week in December. Social would be chaperoned by student council 
advisers. Board agrees to this proposal and Steven will work with Kate McCaron to organize the event.  
 
1. Minutes: Motioned made and passed unanimously to accept September 16, 2010 minutes.  
                               Motioned made and passed, with one abstention, to accept October 21, 2010 minutes as amended. 
2. Director’s Report (please see report for more detail) 
 Circulation is slightly lower for October 2010 at 9,833 (FY11 Oct) 
 Jillian Fleet, a student from Lunenburg High School, hired as new Junior Library Assistant.  
 Budget: Salaries are on target; utilities a little over (probably due to parking lights and air conditioning); 
the library’s municipal rate will increase due to the new sewage rates; North Middlesex completed final 
pledge to the Friends of LPL of $3,333.33 and the State Aid installment of $6, 068.79 will arrive soon. 
 Staff: The LPL staff have been attending Evergreen training; staff meeting November 16, shared 
conference and workshop information and also reviewed the Appropriate Behavior Policy, new museum  
pass information and computer Q&Q. 
 Facilities: Peg Paints repainted community room, community kitchen and hallway and 2 study rooms – 
she did an excellent job! This was funded through the Endowment Fund. IKON copiers - Friends of LPL 
agreed to pay for a 1-year maintenance agreement to cover copier repairs. 
 Technology: New computers – Jen has been working long hours to install and troubleshoot; CW Mars 
set-up PC Reservation. Video screen will go up soon. 
 Programs: LHS is now giving class credit for attending Kate’s TAG (Teen Advisory Group) book club! 
Due to it’s overwhelming size, Book Time for Babies has been divided into 2 groups. Buzz Lightyear 
program was a success. 
 Other: Friends Oktoberfest netted a little over $800 for the Endowment; the Library Mini golf Event has 
been moved to Spring 2012. 
 Amy distributed the FY2012 MBLC Legislative Agenda 
3. Policy Sub-Committee Recommendations: Discussion about the new Lunenburg Public Library Meeting 
Rooms Policy; motion made and passed unanimously to accept new poli cy. 
===PAGE 2===
4. Town Manager’s 5-year Plan and Preliminary FY 2012 Budget  
 Presented a level-service budget 
 Tax rate state average is 9% decrease. 
 Amy recommends library pay CW Mars membership out of operating budget and restore cuts to 
operating hours made in FY10. 
 Amy would welcome budget options/recommendations if level funding isn’t realized.  
 Level Service would be: 
i. CW Mars  
ii. Additional paraprofessional staff person; 19 hours at $13/hour, no benefits.  
iii. Add Friday hours: 4 hours, 10 am-2 pm. Cost - $100/hr: $80 for staff, $20 for utilities. 
iv. New copier 
v. New front doors 
vi. Increase staffing hours 
 Budget request due December 22, 2010. Will create a draft, pass on to Kerry with note saying still needs 
approval by Trustees. There will be a budget subcommittee meeting before nex t Trustees meeting. 
 
Motion made and passed unanimously to adjourn at 7:46 pm. 
        Next meeting: December 16, 2010 at 6:30 pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 