===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
May 20, 2010 
Meeting called to order at 6:30 p.m. 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, John Mara, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len 
Smetana 
 
1. Public Comment: Kathy Herrick, Lunenburg Town Clerk swore in all of the newly elected Trustees. 
2. Minutes: Motion made and passed to accept minutes as amended. 
3. Town Meeting: this went very well and our budget was approved. 
4. Director’s Report (please see handout for details) 
 Circulation & Meeting Rooms: Circulation rates have leveled off; meeting rooms usage remains 
consistent with the policy change due to budget cuts. 
 People Counter and Computer Usage: April counts a bit low, this could be due to April 
vacation, although still higher than earlier in 2010. Computer usage remains heavy even 
with the vacation period. 
 Budget: Payroll budget may be over by $40.00, but this will be fine. Hoping for a little 
over $60,000.00 in library materials expenditure. CW Mars software expenditure for FY 
10 is $13, 561. 
 Staff Update: Discussion with Robert Rand about library staff positions; there is a 1 year 
wait until raises go through; those on salary admin will not receive a raise next year, 
AFSCME union people will receive 5%; Personnel plan will be presented May 11, 2010 for 
FY2012. 
 Amy is trying to have more staff meetings at different times; she is merging the 
reference collection into the circulating collection. The furlough weeks are over; there 
were 3 library staff on at all times during this period. 
 PC Reservation is faster but still having timing out problems and the new CMRLS delivery 
system is working well. 
 Facilities: the garden waterfall is working, many thanks to Jeanne Proctor. Friends are 
providing monies to do a weed & feed application for the library lawn. 
 Millennium Alarm Company Update: Cameras will soon be installed; library will have 
explanatory flyers available for patrons. The DVR is 500 GIG, motion detection cameras; 
1 year labor and service warranty, cameras are guaranteed longer. Friends gave $8,500 
for this project; the bid came in at $5,800. 
 Service contract: SJ Services out of Danvers were awarded the new maintenance 
contract; 2hrs., 2x/week, may be able to negotiate for 3x/week. This company will s tart 
July 1, 2010.  
===PAGE 2===
 Technology: Staff has new pc’s; older pc’s went to public area; PC's will be replaced after 
July 1 - they're funded from capital planning money for FY11. Jenn will coordinate with schools 
to add appropriate educational links to the public area desktops.  
 Programming: Tom Mulholland exhibit is currently on display; Eagle photos will be next; 
other programs children’s basic programming; Doug Pulsifer will not be doing summer 
classes; Cole will have class in June and then break for summer; Lindsay Savageau from 
Lunenburg Ledger will be providing a creative writing class. 
 Friends Book & Bake Sale is June 5, 10-2. Set-up for books in Wednesday & Thursday of 
this week; please come and help if available. 
 Library Sign: Amy will ask Kerry for Building Maintenance to take care of fixing the sign. 
 
5. LPL Main Hall Technology: Amy was able to obtain an all-in-one computer that can be used for 
library and town announcements such as meetings, programs, etc. It will be located next to the 
circulation desk; a shelf and outlet cover will be built for this. 
6. Bea Adams: The Friends of Forbush Library sent a letter and monetary donation thanking Bea for 
her program; Bea gave the donation to LPL. 
7. LPL Trustess Board Re-organization: John Mara and Jeanne Raboin were re-elected by unanimous 
declaration as chair and secretary respectively. 
 Committees –  Budget: Kathy, John and Amy 
          Personnel: Dick, Len and Jeanne 
 Policy: Noelle, Lisa and Amy 
 Endowment: Lisa, Len and Amy 
 
8. Open Meeting Law: Changes as of July 1, 2010 – subcommittee meetings must be posted 24 
hours in advance of the meeting; must also provide report minutes and send to Town Hall. 
9. Amy Sadkin, LPL Director’s Performance Review and Evaluation: Motion made and passed 
unanimously to accept evaluation as discussed and to be presented to her by chair and one (1) 
additional Trustee. 
10. LPL Director’s Contract: Motion made and passed unanimously to offer Amy Sadkin a 3 year 
contract with the LPL Trustees Board Chair to negotiate salary and terms.  
 
Motion made to adjourn at 8:02 pm 
Next meeting: June 17, 2010 at 6:30 pm 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
===PAGE 3===
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 