===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
June 17, 2010 
Meeting called to order at 6:30 p.m. 
Attending: Lisa Krowitz, John Mara, Dick Mailloux, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana, Noel Bodkin, Kate Murray 
1. Public Comment: John read a thank you note from Deb Chapdelaine. 
2. Amy presented a letter from Jennifer Mason concerning her position at the LPL. 
3. New Business 
 May 20, 2010 Minutes: Motion made and accepted to pass minutes as amended.  
 May 20, 2010 Executive Session Notes: Motion made and passed to accept. 
 Director’s Contract: Amy has accepted contract as amended. The contract will go to Lunenburg Town Hall.  
4. Director’s Report (please see Amy’s report for more detail) 
 LPL was a regional net lender in FY10, monies from region will be applied against CWMARS FY11 fees. 
 Amy reviewed the budget with the Trustees. 
 Staff: Jen attended two meetings about the current catalog and changes to interlibrary loans; she will also be 
attending NELA. Patty attended a meeting on using the new Evergreen cataloging syste m. 
 Staff met about the library opening/closing procedures, return to original schedules and policies for July 1 
and increased vigilance by staff in checking all areas before locking library for the evening. Staff also 
discussed the Endowment list and sharing of information from meetings/conferences attended. 
 New computers have arrived, but have not been installed. 
 Facilities: security cameras installed and collecting data, signs have been posted in building and garden 
area. Friend’s money set aside for carpet cleaning and upholstery, therefore not necessary to use 
Endowment funds for this project. New cleaners started, will be at library Tuesday and Thursday evenings. 
The lawn has been “fed” and Maryann Sudolnik and Bea Adams continue to maintain the flower urns by the 
main entrance. Simplex replaced and relocated a pipe from the boiler room, DPW covered the cost.  
 Technology: Computer monitor near main desk will soon be installed, just waiting on some parts; library 
looking into Comcast being run into the system. 
 Programs: please see Director’s Report for this list.  Highlights: Kate hosted a Board Games session for 7 th 
graders who didn’t attend the NYC class trip; Babysitter Connection program and Red Cross Babysitting 
course will be offered this summer; for the younger kid’s the Lean Green Clean-up Machine and the Jen 
Morris program will be happening in June. 
 Other: Patty and Amy completed moving the Main Hall collections with the help of volunteers.  
 Friends Book & Bake Sale brought in $2042. 
5. Personnel Posting for a Junior Library Assistant; there is budget for two high-school age students to go through the 
year.  
6. Calendar of Trustee Meetings for FY2011: meetings will remain at 3 rd Thursday of the month, 6:30 p.m. 
7. LPL Friends Annual Meeting: Friday, July 23, 6 0p.m. It will be a potluck, all Friends members and Trustees invited.  
8. Endowment/Friends Request List: Laptop (1): Gateway for $599, software from town for free; Lawn Weed & Feed for 
the year $1,200; Indoor Painting – Wallace Room walls & closet, entrance hall, kitchen and study rooms (chair rail & 
painting); Art Hanging System needs to be stained and installed; Chairs (2) upholstered; Portable defibrillator, perhaps 
through a grant and CPR training (free for municipal employees through the Fire Dept. ). 
9. Open Meeting Law: there will be meetings throughout the state to discuss the changes to this law.  
10. State Ethics Test: to be in compliance, Trustees are required to take online test and then send sheet to Kathy Herrick.  
11. Review of Director’s contract and evaluation procedures. 
12. Former hours to resume July 1, 2010. 
Meeting adjourned at 7:36 p.m. 
Next meeting: September 16, 2010 
Respectfully submitted, 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary, Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
===PAGE 2===
 
 