===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
January 21, 2010 
Meeting was called to order at 7:05 pm. 
 
Attending: John Mara, Amy Sadkin, Lisa Krowitz, Noelle Bodkin, Deb Chapdelaine, Lenny Smetana, Jeanne Raboin 
and Barbara Reynolds 
 
1. Public Comment: Mike Kelly (former LPL Trustee) emailed his thanks and best wishes. 
2. New Business:  
 Motion made and passed to approve December 2009 minutes as amended.  
 Director’s Report (please see full report for details): 
1. Amy met with Barbara Reynolds on January 12, 2010 to discuss the recent budget cuts and 
future library needs for the 2011 budget. In addition to these items, Amy and Barbara, 
discussed State Aid cuts and how these affect the library, its staff, users and materials; along 
with how the reduction in technology funding has affected the library. Barbara has encouraged 
the library to do fundraising.  
2. Amy attended the Capital Planning Committee and spoke about the library’s primary need 
being technology. 
3. Circulation continues to increase since July 2007; meeting room usage down due to cut in 
evening library hours. 
4. Revised budget is on track; Amy will use up materials expenditures as soon as possible. 
(please see FY10 Library Expense Analysis Dec. 09 Month #6 for details); Recorded Books 
recently filed Chapter 11, LPL will be paying this expenditure monthly. 
5. Staff Update:   
 Technology/Reference position filled – Jennifer Mason will be starting February 
8 
  Kerry held a department head meeting January 6 to present a new employee 
assistance group, Amy passed this information on to the LPL staff 
 An LPL staff meeting was held topics discussed were: implementing new ILL 
procedures, ordering materials as soon as possible, using library cards for 
booking meeting rooms, new Operational Safety Policy and ideas for cultural 
events to participate in with the Friends. Staff supports the One Book, One 
Town Program and will begin planning for this. 
 Amy has introduced a new employee self-evaluation form 
6. Facilities Update: HVAC unit wasn’t working correctly, has been fixed; snow removal has been 
very good. 
7. Technology Update: Nancy Strom is the new town IT director; Beth is the library’s technical 
support. Nancy will be working with Beth to develop a new tech support schedule for the 
library. Kindles from grant have come in. 
8. Library Programs:  
 Kate is putting together a program with Bea Adams about her WWII 
experiences; Josh Romano’s history class will be participating. 
 Swing Dance classes have been booked; Bob Cole’s Watercolor 
class rescheduled to Spring 2010; June Dettenrieder will be giving 
Fancy Fiber Necklaces classes. 
 Simon Brooks, children’s storyteller on January 16; over 45 
parents/children attended. 
 Winter vacation week programming was a success. 
3. Library as a Disaster Recovery Center: Amy attended a meeting with Scott Glenny; forms will need to be filled-out in 
order to be registered with MEMA and FEMA; LPL would be a [lace to come for citizen re -imbursement. There is not a 
grant available for a generator. 
 
4. LPL Job Descriptions: Motion made and passed to accept the revised Junior Libra ry Assistant Lunenburg Public 
Library Job Description. 
===PAGE 2===
              Motion made and passed to accept the revised Senior Library Assistant Lunenburg Public Library 
Job Description. 
5. Friend’s Wish List Update:  
 Monies had been approved for the replacement garden and new fencing at the Friend’s 2009 Annual 
Meeting, this will not happen. (However Amy will call the Turkey Hill Gardeners for garden advice.) this frees 
up $5300.00 New phone system came –in under budget, saved $600; sinks came in at $750; window-
washing done for less than budgeted.  
 With the monies saved above Amy would like to purchase a Technology Cart: refurbished Dell laptop’s,  3 -
year warranty, 3 MS Office 2007 licenses (Home & Student); price will be approximately $6,000 with $1 -
1,500 per year maintenance. She will bring this to the Friends. 
6. Town Meeting: Motion made and passed that LPL will close for the May 1, 2010 town meeting. Votes:  
 1 abstention; 1 no; 4 yes 
7. Planning for Budget FY 2011: Amy and John invited to speak to Selectmen at next board meeting about the MBLC 
waiver. 
8. Other: 
 John sent letter to Selectman about Mike’s resignation and Trustee vacancy.  
 John’s and Deb’s terms will be up in June. 
9. Amy’s evaluation: Trustees will use same form; Personnel Sub-committee will send out to Trustees in March and 
then compile. 
10. Since the February Trustee meeting is the week of school vacation, the meeting is rescheduled to February 
25 at 6:30 pm. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8 pm. 
 
Next meeting: February 25, 2010 at 6:30 pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary, Lunenburg Public Library Board of Trustees 
 
 