===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
February 17, 2011 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:02 p.m. 
 
Attending: Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, John Mara, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin (late), Amy Sadkin 
Absent: Noelle Bodkin, Len Smetana 
 
1. There was no public comment. 
2. New Business 
 Motion made by Kathy Murray and seconded by Dick Mailloux to approve the January 20, 2011 minutes, 
passed unanimously. 
 Update of Information of the FY 2012 Budget: Amy will present FY 2012 budget to Fin Comm on March 3 
at 7 pm. 
 Revised Line Items based on Town Manager’s Recommendations for FY 2012 Budget: Discussion about 
revised line items. Motion made and passed unanimously to accept the Revised 2012 Library Budget as 
proposed on February 17, 2011.  
3. Director’s Report 
 FY 2011 Budget: Salary is under projection; library materials a little under; will try to work with Jim to lower 
electricity usage. 
 Circulation: compared to last year circulation numbers are a little lower. These numbers could be reflecting 
the snow days where the library was closed. 
 Staff update:  
o Amy attended an Emergency Management meeting and has volunteered chairs, 
books, games, etc. and staff is also willing to assist at an emergency shelter.  
o Amy spoke at the Groton Public Library’s February 2011 Legislative Breakfast.  
o Jen attended an eBooks class and has offered to teach staff and patrons about 
the technology. 
o Staff meeting held on February 10, 2011. 
 Facilities Update:  library’s flat roofs cleared off on January 31; new hinges ordered for front door.  
 Programs: Attendance is up; some highlights: Valentine’s Day Chocolate Dipping, Yoga program with 
School    Linked services, and an herbal medicine talk by Kenyon Keilly. 
 Friends/Endowment: Friends have added Pawtucket Red Sox tickets to the Museum Pass program; 
approved ordering additional library card holders; there are 1,043 households that are members of the 
Friends of LPL. 
 Other: Amy is applying for an “On the Same Page” grant from the MBLC. The book will be The Adventures 
of Huckleberry Finn by Mark Twain; the computer in the Main Hall is still a work in progress. 
4. Other Library Business 
 Discussion of letter to Trustees relating to use of the Wallace Room. 
 March Trustees meeting will address Trustee elections. 
 
 
Meeting adjourned at 6:50 pm 
 
Next Meeting: March 17, 2011 at 6:30 pm. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Jeanne Raboin  
Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
===PAGE 2===
 
 