===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
March 17, 2011 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:30 p.m. 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, John Mara, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana  
 
 
1. No public comment 
2. February 17 minutes unanimously approved as amended. 
3. Amy: Budget report to Financial Committee went well; Town manager asked us to consider using use state aid to 
support additional hours; figure recommended from last trustees meeting has been accepted; Kerry sent information 
that local aid may not be funded at recommended level. 
4. Town Caucus: March 21, 2011: Kathy Murray and Lisa Krowitz agree to have their names submitted to Town Caucus.  
5. Director’s Report (Please see report for more details.) 
 Budget and Circulation: Staff salaries little adjustment from last month, reconciled with town figures; Kate’s 
longevity, Karen’s in June; salaries still a little under, however, just hired someone for part -time summer 
work, 12.08 per hour, Kerry approved. Person starting Monday is Alex Lent. Rest of budget on track, holding 
steady in all areas. 
 Quick discussion about e-books, number of downloads being limited; CW Mars will be meeting tomorrow to 
try to come to some agreement. 
 Building/Facilities: New hinges for the door not yet installed, door will not be under warranty after new 
installation.  Cub Scout group left running water on in the boy’s bathroom, den mother contacted -  soap 
dispenser snapped off and soap all over the place; many kids on Wednesday, vandalized men’s bathroom, 
police called; sign was placed on door, if need to will begin locking the doors again. DM suggests changing 
the locks to something that self-locks. JM suggests burning a cd from the security tape and sending to the 
middle school principal. 
 Circulation: Slightly down, meeting room usage up in Feb.2011.  Averaging 220 people on Saturdays (see 
report). Weeding the collection: VHS tapes and Books on Tape, both items will eventually be eliminated.  
 Staff Update: AS participated in L.H.S. Career Day; staff participated in webinars on Evergreen and Teen 
Theme/Children’s theme for summer reading programs; staff reviews for clerical union employees sent out, 
also included were director’s suggested goals and own (personal) goal’s. 
 Technology: Website purchased by town, AS having trouble getting information about maintaining, 
transferring information, etc. Jen remains on the committee. 
 Programs: Puzzle and Game Swap; National Poetry Month in April and there will be programs collaborating 
with Kate and local poetry groups. 
 Friends: Investigating new passes; Cultural Horizons and mini-golf in 2012. 
 Other – Historical Commission: dropped off thumb drive with town records dating back to 1721 with original 
land grants, very large files; discussion about how to give the best access to the community for these 
records. Swamped with volunteers, having them switch the barcodes on old items, however does takes much 
staff time to train. $12,000 Revolving fund article submitted to the Town Meeting warrant for FY12.  
 Town Meeting is Saturday May 7th. 
6. State Aid Money for FY 2011: $6,551.68 is due to come to Lunenburg and will be placed into the library. Will have 
received $12,000+ this year. 
7. Staffing levels and scheduling: AS reviews this with the Trustees. Primary issue: to have enough people in the pm, 
goal is to have 4 all day long, more in afternoon if possible – we are short-staffed with 5.5 FTE. One person scheduled 
to be off from now through the summer;  Deb will be out on medical leave for awhile; there are other staff health issues 
with some unexpected leave. Trustees and Library Director discussed time-off request procedures. 
Motion made and passed to adjourn at 7:34 pm. 
Next meeting: April 14, 2011 at 6:30 pm. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
===PAGE 2===
Trustees, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 