===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
April 14, 2011 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:30 p.m. 
 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, John Mara, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana  
No public comment. 
1. Minutes – Motion made by Dick Mailloux and seconded by Len Smetana, passed unanimously to accept minutes as 
amended. 
2. Freegal Music: A music service where the library pays upfront, then free to patron to download ; motion made and 
passed unanimously to have Amy obtain more information and report to Board at May meeting. 
Question – Do we track log-ins from home computers? Amy does get counter numbers for use of website and 
databases. 
3. Director’s Report (Please see report for more details) 
a. Highest circulation ever for March; increase in meeting room usage, computer use remains steady; of the 
12,113 items circulated, 1,282 were ILL’s. 
b.  Alex Lent is now on board; scheduling continues to be an issue; Bonnie and Jen have taken on a few more 
hours. One staff longevity is outstanding. 
c. Budget: Salaries a bit different due to 3 pay periods; library materials expenditure is up due to big purchases. 
i. Budget Adjustment FY 2011: Mileage increased, Amy Sadkin thinks it’s due to her being on the 
CWMARS Executive Board suggests taking it out of postage and water/sewer; shouldn’t need too 
much more, probably $100. Motion made by Kathy Murray and seconded by Dick Mailloux to take 
money out of 1st postage, 2nd sewer, and then 3rd water of up to $200 and place into Postage 
account – passed unanimously. 
ii. Utilities will probably even out by the end of the year. 
iii. Materials expenditures will probably be about $65,000 this year. 
d. CWMars Statistics: As of January 2011 LPL had 6,843 patrons, please see report for breakdown by user -
type; 55,709 items in collection. 
e. Amy attended CWMars Executive Meeting and User’s Council Meeting; new ILL delivery service starting July 
1 – Optima is the company. Paperless ILL’s will begin next year. Evergreen won’t be up by July 1; won’t 
continue Millennium circulation service, so may be some issues between Millennium being discontinued 
(contract up in July) and Evergreen coming up in October. 
f. Facilities Update: empty liquor bottles found in Men’s room in March; a Monday night meeting notified that 
they left water running in ladies room and lights on; an interior window in the Children’s room cracked, 
replaced by facilities. 
g. Lion’s club offered to do mulch; students needing community service hours will do raking; Amy will ask 
Friends to pay for lawn care (Lakeview) and removal of dead shrubs; Town will do mowing. 
h. Technology: Jen has computer monitor up and running 
i. Programs: April library programs – Nursery Rhyme Times, story hours, Lego club, May Baskets and Wildlife 
Owl Program. Teen programs – Red Eye, GBC and TAG Book Clubs. Adult programming – knitting, 
computer classes and teen/adult poetry programs. In addition to these the Quilts of Valor are on display 
throughout April. 
j. Town meeting: May 7, 2011. 
 
4. State budget looking good, should help with Town Hall projections; discussion about Town Manager and Fin Comm 
recommendations and budget. 
5. Nothing yet about Town Meeting Agenda and potential questions for LPL.  
6. Town election May 21, 2011 
Meeting adjourned 7:25 pm. 
Next meeting May 19, 2011 at 6:30 pm. 
 
===PAGE 2===
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 
 