===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library Meeting 
December 15, 2011 
 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Maillo ux, John Mara, Kate Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadk in, Len Smetana 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:47 pm. 
Public Comment: None 
Secretary’s Minutes: JM motioned and KM seconded to  approve minutes as amended, unanimous. 
Director’s Report:  
1.  Circulation: November had highest circulation of an y November; especially children’s books and DVD’s ( these are 
21.2% of total circulation). Freegal is also popula r; limit hasn’t been reached, still have 778 song f iles that can be 
downloaded. 
2.  Budget - State Aid: First state aid installment arr iving soon; LPL is certified for FY12 and will rece ive approximately 
$12,108.16. Budget is on track, still working on di fferent formats for the Library Program’s report; p lease let Amy know 
if a different format is needed. 
3.  Staff Update: Kate and Jen worked on the LPL teen w eb page and it’s been approved; Kate is working on a LPL teen 
Face Book presence; Jen also worked on image issue.  Amy attended the first MassLNC meeting on the Ever green 
implementation.  CWMARS Executive Board meeting: no w there are approximately 150 libraries as part of CWMARS 
and will postpone switching to Evergreen until all updates are ready. 
4.  Facilities Update: New clock installed and replaced  handicapped parking sign; sprinkler testing and fi re extinguishers 
checked – all ok. HVAC had problems this past Monda y, finally the controls have been looked at and the  Wallace 
Room unit has been programmed into the HVAC compute rs. Amy met with the Capital Planning Committee on Nov. 
21. A community service volunteer cleaned all of th e tables and chairs in the Wallace Room and did som e other chores 
around the building. 
5.  Technology Update: Jen added very nice photos to th e monitor and is working on updating all of the com puters. 
6.  Friends update: Cultural Horizons: West Africa plan ning is continuing.  
7.  Other: Sony Reader Library Program: Amy looked into  a community read grant through Sony, but due to th e popularity 
the program is closed for now. Amy will revisit thi s in Spring 2012. 
Subcommittee Meeting: Policy Subcommittee will meet  to discuss donations and donation boxes (plants, a rt work, books,). 
Issues: who owns and insurance. Donation boxes: wha t size? How do we manage this? How does the library  manage the size 
and amount of donations or a one-at-a-time donation ?  
Other: A request from the Senior Center director, D oreen Noble (just became a minister), wanted to hav e a Christmas Eve 
Service in the Wallace Room.  No action was necessa ry. 
Budget: Not ready to discuss the FY 2013 budget. Di scussion about swapping LPL Friday close to Monday.   
Motion to adjourn meeting at 7:37 pm made by JM, se conded by NB, unanimously approved. 
 
Next meet January 19, 2012 at 6:45 pm. 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 