===PAGE 1===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
September 15, 2011 
 
Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, John Mara, Jeanne Rabo in, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana 
Absent: Richard Mailloux, Kathy Murray 
Minutes: Motion made by LK and seconded by NB, to u nanimously accept minutes as amended from June 16, 2011. 
No Public Comment. 
New Business 
1.  Calendar of meetings: no conflicts with school cale ndar until April Vacation week; we may need to move  this but will 
wait until then. 
2.  Calendar for the LPL Library: Discussion about clos ing LPL on these dates: Dec. 24, 2011, Dec. 26, 201 1; Jan. 2, 2012 
and May 5, 2012. NB made motion to close LPL on Dec . 24 & 26, 2011; Jan. 2, 2012, LS seconded, unanimous to 
close library on these dates. 
3.  Director’s Report (see report for details) 
a.  Summer Director’s Report: no questions 
i.  July Budget 2011 – Salary: there was a step increas e (signing bonus) voted on at Town Meeting 
for one LPL staff. 
ii.  Revolving Fund Balance: $9,391.39 
iii.  Keep in mind: State Aid Reports - population over 1 0,000 so we must be aware of the state policies 
for this (we have 3 yrs. to comply). 
b.  September 2011 Director’s Report: see report 
i.  Concerning the Gaming: Question, would this program  need adult supervision when a child/teen 
checks game(s) out. 
ii.  LPL plans on circulating the older, used games; in- house for new games. 
iii.  LPL Staff opening: would like to post as a Senior L ibrary Assistant; overall picture for the future: 
would like to get current staff more hours and in n ear future more staff.  
iv.  Salary a little over due to extra pay period. 
v.  Circ up again; seeing slightly less kids after scho ol. 
vi.  All old pc’s recycled, new ones in soon; good adver tisement on Cable Access channel for library 
programs. 
4.  State aid reports are completed: collections have i ncreased, LPL is a net lender, good number of patro ns from outside 
Lunenburg requesting our materials or using library . 
5.  When new OPAC system comes up, LPL will not need to  be closed; however cataloging will be down for a m onth, so 
no new items to be shelved at this time. 
6.  Capital Plan FY2013 (see handout): discussion about  which items to present in the 2013 plan. Trustees would like to 
add exterior doors and include handicapped access b utton to be in ADA compliance into the plan. Roof a nd HVAC 
system added to list of Inventory items $10K and up . 
7.  Evergreen Software Conversion: pushed to January 20 12 (but this could change); unfortunately CWMars no t paying 
for update to current system so there are several i ssues.  
8.  Other business: Friends of LPL Book and Bake Sale O ct. 1. 
9.  Noelle: Presented a request by a Lunenburg citizen to use the library’s Great Hall for a wedding cerem ony. Although 
the idea is lovely, Trustees unable to give permiss ion due to the LPL Policy on after-hours library us e. John will draft a 
letter of regret and will send to Trustees for revi ew. 
10.  Freegal website not implemented nor paid for yet. 
Motion made by JM, seconded by LK to adjourn at 8:1 0 pm. Next meeting Thursday, October 20 at 6:30 pm.  
Respectfully submitted, 
Jeanne Raboin, 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 