===PAGE 1===
Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library 
May 19, 2011 
 
Meeting was called to order at 6:43 p.m. 
 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, John Mara, Len Smetana, Amy Sadkin  
 
Absent: Jeanne Raboin 
 
No Public comment. 
 
1. Minutes - Motion made by Dick Mailloux and seconded by Noelle Bodkin, pass unanimously to accept the 
minutes from the April 14 meeting. 
2. Review of Town Meeting – The technology budget included 15 computers, a wireless printer and a color 
copier for the Library. 
3. Director’s Report (see report for details) 
a. Circulation/Budget: Fine money is down year over year; e-mail reminders are helping.  Attendance, 
meeting room usage and computer usage are up. Salaries and utilities are in line. Library materials 
will be up in May due to magazine renewals and purchases of books on CD. 
b. Staff:  
i. Jen attended a CWMARS meeting re:Evergreen and the switch over to the new system, 
the database will be unavailable for four days, all patrons will need to have their library 
cards to check items out.  Signs will be posted.  
ii. Sherri attended a meeting on an alternative meeting room booking software, but found 
the current software better suits LPL’s needs.  
iii. Patty attended an Evergreen update re: cataloguing changes. 
iv. Kate and Karen are working on Summer Programs. 
v. Amy was invited to join the Board of the Mass Library Aid Association, attending 
CWMARS Executive Committee and User’s Council meetings and has been acting as a 
proctor for local residents taking tests  
vi. David Berthiaume, long-time Sr. Tax write-off worker will no longer be doing our yard 
work/recycling. 
c. Technology – Jen’s computer has a virus which affected PCRserve, CWMARS is working with Jen 
to correct the issue. 
d. Facilities: The front door hinges are fixed, an extra set has been ordered. 
e. Programs: On May 14th, the Friends sponsored The BUS-eum, a traveling exhibit about German 
POW’s titled, “Held on the Homefront”, nearly 40 people attended. On May 26th the Never Again 
Campaign will be discussing Japanese culture and the after-effects of nuclear radiation and war 
following WWII. Kate wrote a grant and received $1,000.00 for the Teen Summer programs.  
f. Other: The police responded to a call about teens shooting BB guns. The Friends added 2 more 
passes, Butterfly Place and Garden in the Woods.   Spring Book and Bake Sale is Saturday, Jun e 
4th. 
4. Freegal Music Service: Discussion about the costs, service, pros and cons. A motion was made by John 
Mara with a second by Len Smetana to try the program with an initial expenditure of $1,440 for 52 weeks/3 
songs/week/patron starting July 1, 2011, it passed unanimously.  The funds will come from the Revolving 
Fund. 
5. Discussion of the Town Negotiated Contracts and Implications for LPL: 3% increase for 2012, and an extra 
½% to the steps in 2013. 
6. Discussion about Board Reorganization to occur at the June Meeting. 
7. Other Business: Discussions about the town website and library trustee overview.   Wildberry a monthly e-
mail service is used by Leominster to communicate what’s happening at the library, check it out.  
 
Meeting adjourned 7:43 p.m. 
Next meeting June 16, 2011 at 6:30 p.m. 
 
Submitted by Kathy Murray, Trustee, Lunenburg Public Library 