===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library
March 8, 2012
Meeting called to order at 6:48 pm
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana
Absent: John Mara, but joined the meeting via telephone for the Revised LPL FY13 Budget discussion
No Public comment
New Business
February 9, 2012 Minutes: Motion made by Dick Mailloux and seconded by Len Smetana to approve minutes as
amended; unanimous approval.
• February 16, 2012 Minutes: Motion made by Dick Mailloux and seconded by Kathy Murray to approve minutes as
amended; unanimous approval.
• Director's Report
Budget/Circulation Update: FY 2102 budget on track; postage is slightly over, may need a line item transfer
request at next Board of Trustees meeting. Kate McCarron's longevity is next month; Karen Kemp's longevity
will be in June. February saw an increase in people count, computer usage, circulation and meeting room
Staff Update: Marilyn Stokes will be volunteering in the Teen Room on Tuesday afternoons, starting Tues.,
March 13 at 2 pm. CW Mars, Evergreen and Innovative update: Amy will be attending the CWMARS
Executive Board meeting Friday, March 16. Innovative software is threatening to sue CWMARS, its
Executive Committee and member libraries for breach of contract on their I!! software. There are currently
negotiations underway to reach a settlement. Amy will also be attending the Public Library Association
Annual Meeting in Philadelphia, March 14-17.
Facilities: Jim replaced the lights above the book drop last month and has been looking for the control switch.
DPW fixed DVD drawer; fire extinguishers inspected and filled.
Technology: Comcast service, as of this afternoon, seems to be working; Jen working very hard on this
problem. The Comcast problem causes a gap in service and then the circulation module turns off. Dell rep
has fixed the one po problem.
Programs: July 2011-February 2012 total number of library programs is 169; total program attendance for
July 2011-February2012 is 2,917.
Friends: The Cultural Horizons: Celebrating West Africa series came to a close on March 3, with Balla
Kouyate, a Malian balaphone instrumentalist. There were 54 attendees. Next event for Friends is the June 2
book sale; it will be held 8:30 am - 2 pm.
• Other: Amy spoke with Sarah Sogigian from Mass Library System, about presenting a program on teens and
libraries; she has been to many libraries for this program. She can come April 5, 2:30 - on; presentation is
about an hour and then open for questions and discussion.
Program can be 2:30-6; close library 3-6, library re-open 6-8. Amy will let the Teen Center and schools know
that this will be going on. Amy will request money for food from Friends.
Kathy Murray made motion to close library from 3-6 pm for Staff Development, re-opening from 6-8; Len
Smetana seconded; passed unanimously.
• Approval of Revised LPL FY 2013 Budget (Trustee Budget Sub- committee: Noelle Bodkin, John Mara, Kathy Murray):
Discussion surrounding loss of State Aid, this amount isn't reflected in the proposed budget, so these monies would
have to come from somewhere else. This is based on the Town's budget, and depending on what happens with it we
will then have to make revisions. Also discussion that if Town Manager mandated budget is passed at Town Meeting
the library might face decertification.
Dick presented a second budget proposal: Reduce total library hours to 40/week, reduce hours for Amy,
Patty, Jen, Sherri, Deb and Kate by 2 hrs/wk; reduce Karen's hours by 4 hrs/wk; eliminate the two Page
positions and 1 library assistant position. This budget used the same line item operating cost cuts as the
Trustees Budget Sub-committee.
• Budget Sub-committee budget Proposal, which was developed by John since the subcommittee did not meet
after the CAFO requested a 10% budget cut: Director's salary frozen; Pat, Jen, and Kate less 2 hrs/wk;
===PAGE 2===
Karen mornings only and Saturday; Sherri, Deb and all pages 1 hr less/wk; Children's library will have
reduced hours during week based on low utilization, no reduction in hours on Saturday. Library hours will
also be reduced from 44 to 42 hours per week. There are also operating expenses line item cuts.
• A third option was proposed by Lisa to reduce the hours for all staff, but the numbers were not formally
determined during the meeting since this led to discussion of staff job descriptions and skills needed for
continuing day-to-day library operations, loss of children's library hours and impact this would have, and
impact of cutting positions from the budget.
• Motion made by Jeanne Raboin that we accept the Budget as revised to FY13 Town Manager's request to
$312,313, with Salary and Longevity at $216,775. Remaining line items to be adjusted to equal $95,538.
Seconded by Kathy Murray. Motion passed: 4 yes, 2 no.
Yes: Noelle Bodkin, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Len Smetana
• No: Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux
• No subcommittee meetings took place.
• April meeting: Due to the April vacation Lisa Krowitz asked to move the April Trustees meeting to another date. Motion
made by Dick Mailloux and seconded by Lisa Krowitz to move Trustees meeting to April 26; passed unanimously.
•
Process for Director's Evaluation: This should be done by June; request by Amy to get an extension to her goals, this
is granted. Reviews by Trustees to be turned in by April 19. Board discussed changes to the review process such as
adding a director "self-review" or a 360 review. For this review cycle the procedure and evaluation form will remain the
same, however, future changes to the Director's review process and perhaps form will be discussed at the next
meeting.
• Information Updates for Phone and library web site: Discussion about the issues with the phone and updating the web
pages. Amy would like the Board to revisit the library having its own web site. Jen will be posting the Trustees names
and contact information.
Other:
•
Town Caucus, March 19, 2012: Noelle Bodkin will not run again; Len and Jeanne will run.
Snow days communication: Amy follows policy.
: Botry asked why lter to sheri concerning personnel mater came from the Board rather than Kery, this was tha
Board's decision.
Dick Mailloux announced his resignation as Board chair.
Motion made by Dick Mailloux and seconded by Noelle Bodkin to vote Jeanne Raboin as chair; passed
unanimously.
Motion made by Jeanne Raboin and seconded by Len Smetana to vote Lisa Krowitz as secretary; passed
unanimously.
Motion made by Kathy Murray and seconded by Dick Mailloux to adjourn at 9:55 pm; passed unanimously
Respectfully submitted,
Jeanne Raboin
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library
