===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 S 2012
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library
LUNENBURG TOWN
April 26, 2012
Meeting called to order at 6:45 pm
CLERK OFFICE
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Milloux, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len Smetana, John Mara
Absent: None
Public comment
Dave Rodgers - He expressed his concern that the proposed FY 13 library budget will result in limited hours to the Children's part
of the Library.
Kate McCarron - She read her letter that she emailed to the Board concerning issues that she has with the management of the
library and the proposed FY13 library budget. Her main concern with the management of the library is due to lack of
communication (ex. The last staff meeting was 1/16/12. Kate is concerned about the proposed reduction in the Children's
section and reduced hours of the Children's librarian. She would like information on the statistics that were used to determine
that the children's part of the library is not used significantly after 1 pm during the week. She would also like information on the
cost savings for closing the meeting rooms after hours and why does the budget present an unequal distribution of staff hours.
Richard Letarte - He expressed his concern of the proposed FY13 library budget, indicating that there may be other ways to deal
with the 10% cut to the budget rather than reducing the hours of operation for the Children's section and reducing the hours of
the Children's librarian. He submitted a paper with some numbers for dealing with the budget, which included reducing the
Director's salary.
MaryEllen Letarte - She expressed her concern over the proposed FY 13 library budget, especially related to the reduced hours
of operation for the Children's section. She uses all parts of the library including the Children's section.
Robin Venezia - She expressed her concern over the proposed FY13 library budget, especially related to the reduced hours to
the Children's section. She asked the board to reconsider the reduction in the hours of operation for the Children's section and
rather reduce hours for the entire library in the summer. Based on her research, she indicated that in order to meet the required
minimum hours of operation to receive state aid (40 hours/week) the library could reduce summer hours and still meet the
minimum hours of operation.
Karen Godin - She expressed her concern over the proposed FY13 library budget, especially related to the reduced hours of
operation for the Children's section and reduced hours for the Children's librarian.
MaryAnn Sudolnik - She expressed her concern over the proposed FY13 library budget, especially related to the reduced hours
to the Children's section and Children's librarian. The proposed budget appears to have unequal, punishing cuts. She indicated
that when the town was asked to support funding for the new library, it was based partially on the fact that it would be located on
the school campus thus allowing easy access to the library for all the school aged children. However, the proposed FY13 budget
does not allow for school aged children (K-6) access to the part of the library specifically created for them, the Children's section.
New Business
March 8, 2012 Minutes: Motion made by John Mara and seconded by Dick Mailloux to approve minutes as amended;
unanimous approval, except John Mara abstained since he was not physically present at the March meeting.
•
Director's Report
Budget/Circulation Update
• A letter from the Board of Library Commissioners on April 25, 2012 was received indicating that the second
and final installment of the State Aid ($6508.41) will be issued to LPL in the next few weeks.
• The FY12 budget was over on the Salary line item. According to Amy, the overrun on the Salary line item is
due to using extra staff during the afternoon hours and having staff meetings when the library is closed. Amy
indicated that all the other line items are under budget and thus the FY12 budget is expected to break even.
• Amy requested to transfer $200 from line item #521025 Heating Charges to line item #523001 Water
Charges, and to transfer $200 from line item #540000 Office Supplies to line item #534400 Postage.
===PAGE 2===
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 9 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
• Motion made by John Mara to transfer funds as presented by the Library Director Amy Sadkin and seconded
by Noelle Bodkin; unanimous approval.
Staff Update
• EAP meeting is scheduled for Tuesday May 1stfrom 8:30-10 am on Respectful Workplace. Amy suggested
that EAP could lead a workshop for the Trustees on Team Building, which Kathy asked Amy if she could
follow-up with EAP.
Sarah Sogigian of MLS gave a 2-hour presentation on Teen Behavior April 5". The staff and several
Trustees attended the presentation, the following discussion, and pizza dinner.
Jen attended several MLS workshops (Dealing with difficult patrons and a 2 part cataloguing workshop)
Amy attended the Public Library Association Annual Meeting in Philadelphia March 14-17, which she said
was very informative. She hopes that other staff members will have the opportunity to attend in the tuture
Jeanne Raboin, Trustees Chair, received a letter from the Kerry Speidel, Lunenburg Town Manager (CAFO)
that Sherri Freeman had completed the required sessions as requested by the LBOT in February and will
send a letter from the Trustees acknowledging EAP completion.
Facilities Update
• Pella replaced the broken window. Jim replaced the screens that had fallen off over the winter.
CleanCarpets cleaned the rug on March 31.
There was an issue with the lights in the Community room, which Jim fixed. The drop box light is still not
Technology Update
The emails for the members of the Trustees are now on the library's home page along with a link to the
impact statement for the proposed 10% budget cut.
The transition to Evergreen is planned for Memorial Day weekend. CWMARS will be off line on Friday and
Evergreen will not be up and running until Tuesday May 29 at 8:30 am. Due dates on checked out items will
be extended to compensate for the down time. Amy proposed closing the library on Saturday May 26h since
the system will be offline until Tuesday
Motion made by Dick Mailloux to close library Saturday May 26' to facilitate the transition from WMARS to
Evergreen and seconded by Kathy Murray; unanimous approval.
Programs
• The Hunger Games party organized by Kate was hugely successful with 80 teens attending
• Deborah would like to setup a Movie Club similar to a Book Club.
• Kate received a $1000 grant from Bemis for summer programming.
Friends
• The summer Book & Bake sale is set for June 2ad. The next Friend's meeting is June 16'.
• The group is looking for new members and more fundraising ideas.
Other
The library received several donations in memory of Mrs. Walker. Amy will send out a thank you card.
• Amy presented her Letter of Resignation to the Board, requesting her last day to be May 24, 2012. The
Board accepted her resignation with the date of last day of work to be decided at a later date.
John Mara made a motion to accept the resignation of the Library Director, Amy Sadkin, with regret and we
the Board will work with the Director on an agreed upon date to make sure the transition is smooth; Dick
Mailloux seconded; passed unanimously
John Mara made a motion to move the Director's FY12 Evaluation from the Agenda to be discussed at a
future meeting; Dick Mailloux seconded; passed unanimously.
Amy received a letter from Jackie Gray of Girl Scout Troop 30970 asking if her GS Troop could hold a car
wash in front of the library on Saturday June 2nd after 2pm.
Len Smetana made a motion to allow Girl Scout Troop 30970 to have a car wash in front of the library on
Saturday June 2nd after 2:30 or anytime on Sunday June 3rd; Kathy Murray seconded; passed unanimously.
• John Mara made a motion to close the library on May 5, 2012 for the Town Meeting; Dick Mailloux seconded;
passed unanimously.
FY13 Budget Discussion
Union representative did not come to the meeting since Karen Kemp asked to be removed from the Agenda.
The Board may want to consider inviting the Union representative to an upcoming meeting.
The Board discussed revisiting the Budget that was approved during the March meeting. However, it was
decided that it does not make sense to propose new budgets until after the Town Election on May 19th, If the
===PAGE 3===
override is not passed then the Trustees have until June 30th to re-evaluate and approve a budget that meets
the 10% cut in the library's FY13 budget.
The Board discussed requesting at the Town Meeting that the Library budget be re-established to the original
proposed FY13 State Aid budget of $347,911.
Actions for the Board and/or Director
• The Board Chair, Jeanne Raboin will send out some dates for a meeting to discuss how to move forward
with the resignation of the Director.
• Amy will have a staff meeting to discuss how to transition her responsibilities to the staff and she will gather
information from MLA on an Interim Director.
• Len Smetana and Dick Mailloux asked Amy to bring the Union contract for the staff to the next meeting.
Subcommittee Meetings
The discussion on the Policy Subcommittee was tabled to another date. Lisa will present the information that
she obtained at an MLS Policy Workshop at a later meeting.
• The Board Chair, Jeanne Raboin will send out some dates for a meeting to discuss how to move forward
with the resignation of the Director.
• Information Updates for Phone: Dick Mailloux requested an update on the phone system, but Amy indicated that there
has been no change. Amy indicated that she would need to work with Jen on the phone system when the library is
Motion made by Jeanne Raboin and seconded by John Mara to adjourn at 9:15 pm; passed unanimously.
Respectfully submitted,
Lisa Krowitz
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 9 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
===PAGE 4===
2007-
Any hinese
LAL DIREITOR-
45,000
2008-
contract -50,000
2012-
Salary Proposers
55,000
18% Inchesse over yyrs
31 %
over 5YRS.
YET The TrustEs ProposE,
IN the Event of An OvERRiDE
FAIlUME,
To ponslize the
TowN. wIth FEWeR HOURS,
The childron, iN PArtieron
+ The sappi, while FReezinG
the DirEcTors SalAry.
RETRO ACTIVe RAiSE, A TRUE
LEADER
A 84.000 REDUCTIOn WIll
HOD Zou hours to the sofT.
81 20/111.
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 1 9 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Rich betarte
===PAGE 5===
Lunenburg Public Library
April 26, 2012
Dear Jeanne and LPL Board of Trustees,
It is after much thoughtful consideration that I am writing you this letter I have served as the
Director of the LPL for 5 ½ years. During this time, I have sought to make Lunenburg's library a
cutting edge library - a library for the future. A library that embraces change, that offers
excellent customer service, and provides a safe and welcoming environment for all who enter.
During my time as Director, Lunenburg became the first library in Central/Western
Massachusetts to circulate Kindles. New software was implemented to provide the public fair
and equitable access to our services; an Endowment Fund was established to provide for the
library in the future; good customer service became our number one priority. I also worked
tirelessly to promote the library at town-wide events and to ensure that we have a good working
relationship with other departments in town. Collaboration and cooperation are the basics to
operating a first-class library.
I believe that I have brought positive changes to the library that have improved services for all
the citizens of Lunenburg I am proud of what I have achieved, but now it is time for me to
move on. Therefore, I am submitting this to you as my letter of resignation effective one month
from today
I would like to thank the Town of Lunenburg for giving me the honor of serving as the Director
of its public library. It is my hope that LPL will continue to move forward into the future and
embrace the changes and challenges that will come its way.
Sincerely,
emy Sodker
Amy Sackil
Library Director
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 19 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978)582-4140
===PAGE 6===
Commonwealth of Massachusetts
Board of Library Commissioners
98 North Washington Street • Suite 401 • Boston, Massachusetts 02114-1933
(800) 952-7403 in state • (617) 725-1860 • (617) 725-0140 fax
April 25, 2012
Ms. Regina Raboin, Trustee Chair
P.O. Box 409
Lunenburg, MA 01462
re: Lunenburg Public Library
Dear Ms. Raboin:
The Board of Library Commissioners is pleased to issue a second and final State Aid to Public Libraries
award to the Town of Lunenburg in these amounts:
FY2012 Library Incentive Grant (LIG)
FY2012 Municipal Equalization Grant (MEG)
FY2012 Nonresident Circulation Offset Award
$ 2,416.43
$ 1,981,58
$ 2,110.40
Total
$ 6,508.41
The state treasurer's office will issue the check within the next few weeks. With this payment, Lunenburg
will have received a total of $ 12,562.49 in FY2012 State Aid to Public Libraries funds.
These awards are funded by Chapter 68, Acts of 2011, which states that awards should be placed in a
separate account to be expended by the public library, without appropriation.
We have notified your municipal treasurer about this FY2012 State Aid to Public Libraries payment.
However, you should contact the treasurer and/or accountant about the award amounts and confirm that
the funds will be made available to the library.
Sincerely,
Potent l. Mie,
Robert C. Maier
Director
CC:
Amy Sadkin,
Lunenburg Public Library, Lunenburg
Treasurer, Town of Lunenburg
RECEIVED & FILED
SEP 19 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
