===PAGE 1===
 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library Meeting 
February 1, 2012; 7:00 p.m. 
 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Richard Mai lloux (LPL Trustees Chair), John Mara, Kathy Murray , Jeanne Raboin, Amy 
Sadkin (LPL Director), Len Smetana, Marc Terry (Tow n of Lunenburg Counsel); Sherri Freeman, John Flick  (Ms. Freeman’s 
Attorney) 
 
 
Public Comment: There was no public comment. 
 
1.  Meeting: To hear complaint against Ms. Sherri Freem an, Lunenburg Public Library employee, as brought t o Trustees 
by Ms. Amy Sadkin, Lunenburg Public Library Directo r. Trustees will also hear Ms. Freeman’s statement in response to 
complaint. 
a.  Mr. Terry reviewed the purpose of the meeting (See M.G.L. Chapter 39, Section 21A [1]) and described t he 
meetings procedure pertaining to complaint against Ms. Freeman (See letter to Ms. Freeman from Trustee s 
of LPL, dated January 25, 2012) 
b.  Mr. Mailloux and Mr. Terry reported that Ms. Freema n requested this be an open meeting, rather than in  
executive session as had been publicly posted.  Ms.  Freeman confirmed that she wished the meeting to b e in 
open session. 
c.  At the request of Ms. Sadkin, Mr. Terry read the ou tline and description of the events of Tuesday, Dec ember 
20, 2011, that led to the complaint and subsequent placement of Ms. Freeman on paid administrative lea ve 
from her position at Lunenburg Public Library, and request by Ms. Sadkin to terminate Ms. Freeman as a n 
employee of the Lunenburg Public Library in accorda nce the provisions of the Town Charter. 
 
Following Mr. Terry’s presentation, members of the Board asked questions of Ms. Sadkin pertaining to t he 
complaint, incident, Ms. Sadkin’s actions and libra ry and town policies and procedures regarding emplo yee 
work guidelines and expectations. 
 
Mr. Terry informs the Trustees that Ms. Freeman’s e mployment is covered by the Town’s Salary Admin Pla n.  
 
d.  Ms. Freeman gave Affidavit of Patricia Dupont to Mr . Mailloux and presented her statement as to the ev ents 
of Tuesday, December 20, 2011 to Trustees.  
 
Following Ms. Freeman’s statement, members of the B oard asked questions of Ms. Freeman pertaining to 
the incident, her job, and library policies and pro cedures. 
 
Ms. Murray, Board member, informed the meeting that  after the incident she and Mr. Mailloux met with M s. 
Sadkin and Ms. Freeman; this was at the suggestion of Kerry Speidel, Lunenburg Town Manager. 
 
Ms. Sadkin responded to Ms. Freeman’s statement, co mmenting that she remembers the chain of events 
and responses differently. 
 
2.  After statements by Ms. Sadkin and Ms. Freeman, Mr.  Terry suggested that the Board deliberate, and out lined the 
Board action options. 
a.  Options: It is the Board’s responsibility to decide  on which option to pursue 
a.  Decision to initiate termination proceedings: Case warrants further inquiry and discovery, full 
hearing with witnesses from both parties. After hea ring Board then decides if case warrants 
suspension of up to 15 days, termination or no acti on. This action requires a Board motion. 
b.  Board may resolve matter with a written warning for  which no further proceeding is required.  
Matter would be resolved. This action requires a Bo ard motion. 
c.  Board can choose to take no action.  This action oc curs if no motion to the contrary is taken. 
 
b.  Board discussed options, asking Mr. Terry for infor mation regarding each option. 
 
MOTION made by John Mara, seconded by Jeanne Raboin  
===PAGE 2===
 
 
The Trustees move to initiate termination proceedin gs against Ms. Freeman pursuant to the 
Lunenburg Town Charter. 
 
The motion was opened for discussion. 
 
Motion passed; 5 in favor, 1 against, 1 abstention.  
 
3.  Mr. Terry outlines the Decision to Terminate proced ures 
a.  Board conducts proceedings and parties’ counsels wo uld cross-examine, Board would be able to 
ask questions of both parties and witnesses. 
b.  Board appoints a hearing officer, who would then co nduct hearing, and then pass along 
recommendations to Board. Board can be present at h earing. 
 
Board discussed options. 
 
MOTION made by John Mara and seconded by Kathy Murr ay 
 
The Trustees of the Lunenburg Public Library author ize the Town Manager and Town Counsel, on behalf of  the 
Board, to prepare and serve Ms. Sherri Freeman with  the notice required under the Town Charter consist ent 
with the Board’s vote to initiate disciplinary proc eedings. 
 
Motion passed unanimously. 
 
 
4.  Board will hold this hearing on Thursday, February 9 at 7 pm. Location to be determined. 
 
 
MOTION made by Dick Mailloux and seconded by John M ara to adjourn. 
 
Meeting adjourned at 8:35 pm.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary 
Trustee, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 