===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FILED
NAR 1 2 2012
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library
February 16, 2012
Meeting was called to order at 6:48 pm.
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, John Mara, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin
Public Comment: Kate McCarron, Teen Librarian, reported to the Trustees that the LPL Staff would be sitting down with Amy to
talk to her. Kate also presented the following requests to the Trustees:
• Staff would like to take turns attending the monthly meetings
• Request Trustees add a "Staff Comments and Questions" agenda item to monthly agenda
• Request an impartial mediator to assist staff with improving communication and pursuing common goals
1. Approval of January 19, 2012 Minutes: Motion made by John Mara and seconded by Kathy Murray to accept minutes
as amended. Motion passed unanimously.
2. Approval of February 9, 2012 Minutes: Dick Mailloux made a motion and seconded by John Mara to table until March
8, 2012. Motion passed unanimously.
3. FY 13 Budget Update:
a. Amy reviewed (the) procedure for applying for a de-certification waiver.
b. If we need to apply for a waiver, MBLC might not grant this since the LPL budget cut would be considered
disproportionate, that is not every Lunenburg town department is receiving a budget cut.
C.
Town meeting would give Trustees an opportunity to explain why the waiver wouldn't be granted.
If library receives the 10% cut, hours must be cut by 10% and this would mean losing a day and risk losing
accreditation. To meet State Aid, Library materials must be funded.
e.
Budget subcommittee will meet before the March 22 Fin Com and Trustees meetings.
4. Director's Report (See report for more information)
a. January 2012 had highest circulation of any January at LPL
b. Budget: Salary, materials and utilities are on target.
i. Kathy Murray asked if Trustees should get information about the Job Corps painting the library.
Usually materials bought by customer, and labor (including transportation and insurance) is
provided by Job Corps. Amy will speak to Jim.
c. Staff Update: Marabeth Balboni was hired as new Library Assistant, she had been a volunteer for LPL.
There will be three (3) senior tax work-off people for this year.
d. Facilities Update: Lunenburg Police moved sandwich board away from the street due to vandalism. Jim had
to re-set the HVAC buttons due to high, cold winds.
e.
Technology Update: Continued problems with the Internet, affecting book checkouts, Comcast contacted and
they have replaced hardware and outside lines. One of the new computer's driver is defective, since it is
under warranty Dell will be replacing it. Tidal Communications serviced the phone system, reviewed how to
make changes to system and replaced the portable phone at the front desk with a regular phone.
f.
Friends: Cultural Horizons program, Nani Agbeli and Agbekor Society classes and performance very well
attended, storyteller was not. March 3 at 6:30 pm will feature Balla Kouyate, ballaphone instrumentalist from
Mali.
Other: Warrant articles for Town Meeting close at 4 pm on March 26, 2012. FY13 budget presentation to the
Fincom will be at 7:45 pm on Thursday, March 22, 2012.
5. Meeting Dates for March and April:
a.
Motion made by
b. Dick Mailloux and seconded by Len Smetana to move Trustees meeting to March 8, 2012 at 6:45 pm. April
meeting will remain as scheduled.
• Library Behavior Policy:
===PAGE 2===
a. Town Manager is investigating sexual harassment allegations.
b. Town EAP will assist with staff issues.
c. Beth Galloway, Library consultant, will be brought in to begin working with staff about LPL teen issues. Amy
asked Board to come into the library, see the issues, meet with staff in order to get their
prospective/opinions, then make the Behavior Policy revisions.
Lisa Krowitz suggested Amy should also look at the MLA programs, she will send these to Amy.
7. Other:
a.
Kate's letter: Should Trustees add "Staff Comments and Questions" to monthly agenda? This is covered by
Public Comments, but if a more substantial issue arises it should be brought to Board as an agenda item.
b. Amy will be speaking with Town Manager to bring in an outside person to address library staff and director
communications.
8. Dick Mailloux presented correspondence about Weston Observatory Geophysics and Seismology programs.
9. Lisa Krowitz asked about calling a Policy subcommittee meeting, she will email Amy and Noelle about this.
Motion made by John Mara and seconded by Noelle Bodkin to adjourn meeting. Motion passed unanimously.
Meeting adjourned at 8:48 pm.
Next meeting: March 8, 2012 at 6:45 pm.
Respectfully submitted,
Jeanne Raboin, Secretary
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library
===PAGE 3===
Director's Report
January 2012
Budget/Circulation
See attached. January 2012 saw the highest circulation of any January at the library.
Staff Update
I hired Marabeth Balboni as our new 8 hour/week Library Assistant. Marabeth has been a
volunteer here for almost a year. She also volunteers at St. Anthony's School where she
researched, implemented and cataloged 6000 volumes. I think she will be a great asset to
the library.
We will have 3 senior tax work-off people this year - David Berthiaume, Carol Gaudet
and Ruth Hamilton.
Facilities Update
Police stopped by on Feb. 14 to notify me that they had moved the sandwich board signs
away from the street and removed the letters since there was some vandalism of them
over the weekend.
Jim manually reset the buttons above the ceiling panels in the library to restart the HVAC
on Monday due to the cold winds. Luckily, it has been a warm winter so this is only the
second time he has needed to do so.
Technology Update
We continued to experience trouble with our internet which affected our checkouts,
despite Jen's attempts to have Comcast fix the problem. It appears to at last be resolved
with Comcast replacing some hardware inside and lines outside.
Josh is working with a Dell representative to fix the problems we've been having with
one of our new computers. The driver needs to be replaced and since it is still covered
under warranty, a Dell rep will come out to replace it.
Tidal Communications (we have a maintenance agreement with them paid by the
Friends) came out on Tuesday to give our phone system some tweaks and to review with
Jen and I how to make changes to the system. He also replaced the portable phone at the
front desk with a regular one.
Other
Warrant articles for Town Meeting close at 4:00 PM on March 26'h.
FY13 budget presentation to the FinCom will be at 7:45 on Thursday, March 22nd.
