===PAGE 1===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
May 17, 2012 
Meeting called to order at 6:45 pm 
 
Attending: Noelle Bodkin, Lisa Krowitz, Dick Maillo ux, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin, Amy Sadkin, Len Sm etana 
 
Absent: John Mara 
 
Public comment: None 
 
New Business 
•  April 26, 2012 Minutes: Motion made by Dick Maillou x and seconded by Kathy Murray to approve minutes a s 
amended, unanimous approval.  
•  April 25, 2012 Personnel Subcommittee Minutes: Moti on made by Dick Mailloux and seconded by Len Smetan a to 
approve minutes as amended; In favor (only those th at attended the subcommittee meeting): Dick Maillou x, Jeanne 
Raboin, Len Smetana, Lisa Krowitz. 
•  May 10, 2012 Minutes: Motion made by John Mara and seconded by Dick Mailloux to approve minutes as ame nded, 
unanimous approval.  
•  Director’s Report 
o Donations totaling $1000 have been given to the lib rary in Helen Walker’s name.  The family has not 
indicated a specific use of the donations at this t ime. Amy sent out thank you notes to all the donors .  
Budget/Circulation Update  
o April FY12 circulation is slightly down from March FY12 and FY11 April numbers.. 
o Amy is trying to set up a meeting with the Town Acc ountant to move Amy’s salary to the Interim Library  
Director.  The FY12 budget is over on the Salary li ne item, but Amy indicated that the trash and elect ricity 
line items would cover the Salary overruns for FY12 .  
o Library materials under the 16% State Aid requireme nt.  Amy indicated that she has library material or ders 
that will meet the16%, but there will be no new mat erials order until after the transition to Evergree n, which is 
planned for Memorial Day weekend.  
Staff Update  
o A brief staff meeting was held to discuss transitio ning to the Interim Library Director.  
o Jane de Colgyll met with the staff on May 1 to disc uss “Changes”.  Amy indicated that the meeting was 
emotional for the staff and that most everyone part icipates in the discussion.  
o Amy submitted pay increases for 4 staff members und er the SalAdmin Plan. 
o Deborah has offered to oversee the organization and  maintenance of the Community Service binder near t he 
copier.  
o The staff, except the Pages, is participating in we binars on Evergreen in order to be prepared for the  
transition over Memorial Day weekend.  
o The staff created handouts on the Evergreen transit ion for the patrons. 
o The lawsuit between CWMARS and Innovative over term ination of Innovative’s contract may now include th e 
individual towns in the CWMARS network.  CWMARS is sending out letters to Town Managers in all affecte d 
Towns.   
Facilities Update  
o Jim purchased and installed new outdoor light senso rs, but there is still a problem with the lights no t turning 
off.  Jim also fixed a switch plate cover near stud y carrels in Adult Fiction section and worked with Alarm 
Company to fix alarm sensor on left front door.  
 
 
Technology Update 
o Broadband laid fiber to the library on April 30, wh ich is part of the federal initiative to install hi gh speed 
Internet to western and central MA.  
•  Freegal  
o Amy received email that the account is running low with only 111 songs left.  During April approximate ly 20 
patrons used the service, which has increased since  the library started to provide Freegal.  Based on the 
number of users at 3 songs/week, Amy estimates that  the 111 songs we be used up by May; however, the 
===PAGE 2===
Library’s contract with Freegal is until September 2012.  We have three options for the Freegal servic e: 1. Let 
the remaining songs run out 2. Purchase new songs a t $1.29/song 3. Increase service to unlimited.  We 
originally purchased 1000 songs.  Amy will check in to the cost to update the current contract to unlim ited for 
the remainder of the year, see if the new contract can start on the library’s fiscal year, and see if she can 
negotiate a price for the unlimited service. This s ervice can be included under the library materials line item.  
The Friends of the Lunenburg Library paid for the f irst 1000 songs.  
•  FY13 Budget  
o The subcommittee will setup a meeting after the Mar y 18 th  Town Elections to revisit the proposed FY13 
budget.  Trustees can send ideas to the subcommitte e for consideration.  
•  Interim Director Search 
o Jeanne was in contact with BiblioTemps representati ve concerning our search for an Interim Director.  The 
representative has 2 candidates that are interested  in the position.  Jeanne will contact the represen tative to 
setup a time to meet with the candidates.  
•  Director Search 
o The Board discussed changes to the Director’s Job D escription.   
o Motion made by Len Smetana to accept Library Direct or Job Description as amended.  Seconded by Dick 
Mailloux, unanimous approval.  
o Action Items 
/square4 Jeanne will make the modifications to the Library D irector Job Description as amended and approved by 
the Board. 
/square4 Jeanne and Amy will create an advertisement for the  Library Director position 
•  Director’s Evaluation 
o The Board discussed if finalizing the Director’s Ev aluation was appropriate or if an exit interview wa s more 
appropriate since Amy gave her resignation at the A pril 26 th  meeting.   
o Motion made by Len Smetana to table the FY12 Direct or’s Evaluation indefinitely and instead conduct an  exit 
interview prior to the Director’s June 1, 2012 depa rture.  Seconded by Kathy Murray, unanimous approva l. 
Motion made by Lisa Krowitz and seconded by Noelle Bodkin to adjourn at 8:50 pm; passed unanimously. 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lisa Krowitz 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 