===PAGE 1===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 1 of 2 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
April 25, 2013. 
 
Attending: Lisa Krowitz, John Mara, Martha Moore, Kathy Murray, Jeanne Raboin  (6:56 p.m.), Robin Venezia, Lars Widstrand 
Brian Laffond (finance committee) 
Absent: Dick Mailloux 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:51 pm, by temporary Chairperson Lisa Krowitz.  Regular Chairperson Jeanne Raboin continued the meeting after 
arriving. 
 
 Public Comment 
o None. 
 
 Approval of minutes 
o Minutes of March 21, 2013 meeting – John Mara made a motion to approve the 3/21/13 LPL Board of Trustee minutes; second 
by Robin Venezia; unanimous approval by all in attendance (Kathy Murray absent during 3/21 meeting, abstained). 
 New Business 
o Director’s Report 
 Staff: 
 Sandy Altucher, new hire, Digital Services Librarian – reference, e-books, troubleshooter on technology.  Will start May 
6th.  
 Tom Corbett technology consultant has started to survey library technology.  Has met with town IT staff (Steve M) and 
had a good meeting – mutual benefits will most likely be the result for both town and library.  
 Patty almost back to full-time. 
 Bracing for vacation season… Martha will call HS guidance counselor  Karma Toussignant for new page to be hired to 
replace Alex (going to college) and Jeff who will take undisclosed time off during summer vacation.  
 Financials: 
 Tom Corbett’s consulting pay – up to $ 4,900.00 to be billed to the Library during the current F. Y. 
Motion by Lisa to transfer from Salary Line Item to Services Line Item for Technology consultant the sum of $4,900.00.  
Second by John Mara.  Motion passed unanimously by all present. 
 Spread sheet for current materials spending presented. 
 Discussion about Unitil electrical cost per the budget spread sheet – suggestion made to compare kWh usage 
numbers with earlier bills.  Martha will compare previous kWh numbers with current to make sure we are not “burning” 
electricity and determine the reasons for the increase in the bill. 
 Martha will buy a used sorting table from ROI industries for sorting external library lending in/out-going material. 
 State Aid: next check for $6k on its way for total of $ 11,708.00. 
Discussion about past/current spending of state aid ensued. 
 Discussion about existing Trust Funds; which funds can spend only interest vs. which can have principals spent  as well 
took place. 
 Painting of library – discussion about how much the allocated $40,000.00 will accomplish. 
Front façade painting only + caulking.  Job Corps is one possibility for sourcing painters. 
 Power assist doors for front entry – Martha has had contact with Eagle House for leads on source(s) for 
parts/installation and cost ideas. 
o Update on filled staff position 
 Covered by Martha’s presentation. 
o Budget 
 Covered by Martha’s presentation and ensuing discussions. 
o Programs 

===PAGE 2===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 2 of 2 
 Feedback from a lot of patrons that the programs are being very much appreciated.  Martha had meeting with Friends 
of Lunenburg Library discussing future programs and ideas.  She is very excited about future programs and has plenty 
of ideas to implement. 
o Evergreen 
 New version of Evergreen has been installed today (4/25/13).  Appears to operate faster than previous release.  
Visit from CWMars’ June Cola Stoke – she spent an entire day until 8 p.m. experiencing how it performs in “real life” – 
request list left by Patty was addressed and changes being made during the visit.   The staff felt encouraged by having 
someone from CWMars actually see and hear their concerns about the software and its’ shortcomings. 
o Open Meeting Law 
 Kathy Murray participated in March 28 open meeting law training seminar in Ayer.  Kathy found the seminar very 
informative. 
Lively and animated discussion of the open meeting law and its implications and applications ensued. 
o Town Elections/Town Meeting 
 Town Election next Tuesday; Joanne McQuaid, 30 Cushing Lane, Lunenburg, attempted to get on the ballot, but 
according to Town Clerk some administrative technicality was not met in time.  Joanne will be a write-in candidate for 
the Trustees.  Note that her full address must be written on the ballot in order to be a valid write-in. 
 Town Meeting – John Mara made a motion to close the library during Town Meeting (Saturday). Kathy Murray second.  
Motion passed unanimously by all present. 
o Director’s Evaluation 
 Jeanne has received all evaluation forms except from two trustees.  Trustee Personnel Subcommittee will discuss 
submitted evaluations and merge them before monthly meeting on 5/16, meeting of Trustee Personnel Subcommittee 
will be held during the week of May 6th. 
o Review of Staff Positions 
 Martha would like to review of “actual” work performed vs. current title/position which does not really reflect what the 
different librarians do.  John Mara informed that it would be involve step/grade negotiations with unions, since the se 
actuals were not presented to unions during last negotiation event. 
Non-union staff will be negotiated for by Town Personnel Committee – this committee seems to be in flux at the 
moment. 
Discussion on how to proceed to make sure the “actual” title/position is brought to the negotiating table for the next 
round of negotiating. 
 Old Business 
o Policies Update Subcommittee 
 No update this meeting.  Robin will email update before next meeting.  
o LPL Website and IT Update 
 Already covered mostly earlier in the meeting by Martha.  New URL for library: lunenburglibrary.org will be the 
reserved/purchased domain name and the home for the future website for the Lunenburg Public Library. 
 Other 
o John Mara – John thanked for the time (nine years) on the LPL Board of Trustees.  He was in turn thanked by the remaining 
Trustees for his long service and contributions. 
o Date for next meeting set for 5/16/13. 
 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn made by Jeanne Raboin, seconded by Lars Widstrand.  Motion passed unanimously by all present. 
 Meeting adjourned at 8:16 p.m. 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Temporary Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 