===PAGE 1===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • ( 978) 582-4140 
Page 1 of 2 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting Minutes 
November 21, 2013 
 
Attending:  Dick Mailloux, Joanne McQuaid, Martha Moore, Jeanne Raboin, Robin Venezia, 
Bob Ebersole, Select-Board Representative, Brian Laffond, Fin-Com Representative. 
Absent:  Lisa Krowitz, Lars Widstrand, Kathy Murray. 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:45 pm in the Sudolnik conference room by Chairperson Jeanne Raboin. 
 
•  Public Comment 
No public comments. 
•  Tour of the Library 
The director led the Trustees on an in-depth tour of the library building and facilities. 
•  Approval of Minutes 
Due to the absence of the Trustee’s Secretary, Jeanne Raboin made a motion to pass over the 
approval for the October 17, 2013 minutes; 2 
nd  by Dick Mailloux. 
•  Tour of the new Lunenburg Public Library Website 
Martha asked to defer this tour until the next meeting when the website was completed and the 
Trustees agreed to her request. 
•  Director’s Report – All bullets below are discussed  in the Library Director’s Report, which is 
referenced at the end of these minutes. 
•  Staffing 
•  Financials – Trustees discussed the fact that the w ater budget currently stands at 64% of the 
budget although only 33% of the fiscal year has elapsed.  Martha Moore will investigate this to 
determine if the budget isn’t reflecting actual costs or if it is an accounting and reporting 
limitation of the system. 
•  Collections 
•  Building/Facilities 
•  Programs 
•  Technology 
•  State Aid 
•  Technology Plan 
Martha revealed her newly developed, integrated Technology Plan for the library.  Using a dual 
processor server, NComputing L300 boxes with a firefly solution, the plan provides 19 new 
public computers and 10 staff computers.  All software, security and user controls are installed, 
maintained and updated on the one server.  The plan provides estimates that the new hardware 
system will save over 90% of current electricity costs and 75% of the on-going management costs 
associated with the library’s existing computers.  The funds to purchase this system are available 

===PAGE 2===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • ( 978) 582-4140 
Page 2 of 2 
in the library’s State Aid Fund.  Bob Ebersole explained that even when the library pays for a 
capital expenditure, it still needs to be included in the town’s Capital Funding. 
•  Friends of the LPL: Martha and Jeanne updated the Trustees about the Cultural Horizons program 
and Endowment Fund. 
 
•  Lunenburg’s website: Trustee’s presence 
Trustee Chair Jeanne Raboin, spoke about the Trustee’s lack of presence on the Town of 
Lunenburg’s web site. Although some Trustee information is located on the LPL web page, it is 
incomplete. The Trustees feel that as an elected-board, they should have a section on the Boards 
and Committees ( 
http://www.lunenburgma.gov/content/204/default.aspx) page. Bob Ebersole 
acknowledged this problem, pointing out there are many issues with the town’s web site. He 
suggested updating the information on the LPL web page, but a separate web page isn’t likely 
until the Town’s site is re-designed and updated. 
 
 
 
Motion to adjourn was made by Dick; Joanne 2 
nd  at 8:05 pm. 
 
 
Respectfully submitted 
Robin Venezia 
Acting Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library and 
Jeanne Raboin 
Chairperson 
 
Referenced Documents: 
Lunenburg Public Library Board of Trustees Agenda 
Library Director’s Report, including Technology Plan and Quote by John Roche 
 