===PAGE 1===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • ( 978) 582-4140 
Page 1 of 3 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es 
September 19, 2013. 
 
Attending: Lisa Krowitz, Dick Mailloux, Martha Moor e, Jeanne Raboin, Robin Venezia, Lars Widstrand, Bo b Ebersole 
(Board of Selectmen representative) 
Absent: Joanne McQuaid, Kathy Murray 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:45 pm in the Sudolnik conference room by Chairperson Jeanne Raboin. 
 
•  Public Comment 
o No public comments 
•  Approval of minutes for June 20, 2013: 
o Motion made by Dick to approve submitted minutes; s econd by Jeanne.  Approved by all except 
Robin who was not present at the June 20 th  meeting, and Lisa who arrived after this part of t he 
meeting was completed. 
•  Minutes: Town Policies and Procedures 
o Dealing with old minutes, getting them to town hall  – Town Clerk’s office is looking for minutes of 
previous meetings that are not in the Town archives . 
Jeanne will contact Kathy Murray about Budget subco mmittee meeting minutes of 01-24-2013. 
Jeanne will also obtain information from Kathy abou t the meeting minutes for 10-18-2012 
(approved as amended at 01-17-2013 meeting but supp osedly never submitted to Town Clerk). 
Lars will inform Town Clerk about 09-25-2012: agend a was put out but a meeting was never held 
before the Special Town Meeting on that day. 
•  Director’s Report – All bullets below, except as no ted, are discussed in the Library Director’s Report , which is 
referenced at the end of the minutes. 
o Budget  
o Personnel 
o State Reports - ARIS & Financial  
o Building: Painting 
Overall paint job is going really well, the buildin g looks “brand new” again.  The painting contractor  
Nick Harrison has done a first-class job. 
The whole job has come in at ~ 50% of budgeted amou nt(!). 
Jeanne will draw up communication to all involved ( painting contractor, DPW staff, library staff 
involved, taxpayers) thanking them for their work a nd support. 
o Technology Project & Long Term Tech Support 
MUNI, which was supposed to be on-line with officia l kick-off in July ( this  year…) is still not 
implemented – at least not for the Library. 
o Library Policies: Difficult Patrons 
A Policy subcommittee meeting will be called to rev iew the issues, and create one or more policies 
for how the library will address eventual upcoming problems.  Some of the incidents have been 
addressed directly by the Director, and the “offend ing” patrons are no longer visiting the library.  
The trustees show full support for the actions take n by the Director. 
o Library Programming: Juried Art Exhibit 
•  Friends of LPL: Update and Endowment  
o October 5 
th  book and bake sale – help is requested from volunt eers the week before for set-up and 
breaking down after the sale.  Contributions in for m of baked goods are welcome. 
o Endowment team met twice during summer (Jeanne), ne w financial advisor has reviewed 
placement of endowment funds and is readjusting the  placement of funds.  She is doing a good 
job. 

===PAGE 2===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • ( 978) 582-4140 
Page 2 of 3 
  
===PAGE 3===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • ( 978) 582-4140 
Page 3 of 3 
•  Trustee Chair: Director Evaluation Instrument 
o Jeanne suggested that the personnel subcommittee ca ll a meeting and look at some instruments 
for evaluation, to discuss and present at October/N ovember meeting.  Subcommittee: Jeanne, 
Lisa, Dick – to meet in October. 
•  Other 
o Programs in the Library: 
Film evenings (last Friday of the month) are going to start up again in the future.  These are movies 
directed at an adult audience. 
o Simple pleasures  – food demonstrations in the library, simple dishe s that are easy to make.  No 
date set. 
o Martha: Reported on the focus group “state-wide-lib rary-card” meeting.  The organizers had not 
looked beyond the perceived benefits.  What about d ifferences in library policies, and the individual 
library’s workload if you have to serve the entire state?  It would require additional staff, but woul d 
additional funds for this be available from the sta te?  “Pay” library card, as viable option to cover 
extra costs?  Not clear at this point if college li braries to be included in the system – college book s 
are needed primarily for the students at the local college.  More unanswered questions than 
answers at this time. 
o Dick: continuation of OML discussion.  We (the trus tees) need to set aside some time for this – 
October / November meeting.  To be put on a future agenda. 
With John Mara leaving, a trustees “tour” of the li brary to show the new trustees where all the 
nooks and crannies are – all different little close ts etc. 
o Bob Ebersole, representative for the Board of Selec tmen: Comments to the above, on OML: The 
trustees are “doing well”.  We meet the criteria fo r the agenda, but library door (meeting room) 
needs to be accessible during the whole meeting tim e.  Provision of subcommittees, - all  need to 
have minutes created.  The May-16 BOD meeting which  to a large extend was about the OML; 
DVD of the meeting should be available for viewing.   The meeting will possible also be on You-
Tube in the future. 
Jeanne will put it through the posting on the futur e meeting notices: “use community wing side door 
to access the Trustee meeting after 8 p.m.”. 
•  October meeting to be held October 17, 6:45 p.m. 
•  Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn made by Dick, Lisa second at 8:41  p.m. 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for September 19 
Library Director’s Report, including Financial Spre adsheet 