===PAGE 1===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 1 of 2 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
May 22, 2014. 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin (chair), Dick Mailloux (vice-chair), Harry Kubetz, Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Susan 
Visser, Lars Widstrand (secretary) 
 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:50 pm in the George R Wallace III Meeting Room in the Lunenburg Public Library by Jean 
Raboin. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
 
 Jeanne and the incumbents of the board welcomed recently elected trustees Harry Kubetz and Susan Visser 
to the board. 
 
 Jeanne and the incumbents of the board welcomed recently appointed Gare Thompson back to the board. 
 
 Agenda Items 
o Approval of Minutes 
 April 17, 2014: tabled until June meeting 
 May 15, 2014: Jeanne entertained a motion to accept the minutes as presented, moved 
by Dick, seconded by Robin 
Voted to approve: Jeanne, Dick, Robin 
Abstained: Lars (not present at the meeting), Harry, Susan (not members at the 
meeting). 
 
 Director’s Report 
o The director’s report, as submitted by the director, was read and discussed 
o Items discussed: 
 Budget: Robin mentioned that more specific line items that Martha would like to see in 
the library budget may not be possible to implement, an existing line may be reassigned 
– the Board will contact to Martha and ask how she wants to proceed.  Discussion how 
much flexibility the director may have in reassigning / breaking down line items to better 
fit the Library’s model of operation. 
 Budget: Brian Laffond’s questions about the heating portion of the budget will be put on 
the agenda for the June meeting. 
 Technology: The Mass Broadband Project which brings fiber optic cable connections to 
towns & libraries in Western and North Central Mass. Clarification needed on who will 
possibly get attached to the fiber optic network (staff / staff+public / other computers), 
and the cost implications. 
 
 LPL Director Evaluation 
o Described by Jeanne as information to the new board members; general discussion followed 
 Information: Contract with the director is with the LPL Board of Trustees, not with the 
Town of Lunenburg. 
o Meeting with the director will take place before the next regular trustee meeting to present 
evaluation and the director’s new contract. 

===PAGE 2===
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 2 of 2 
Jeanne will contact Martha to arrange a suitable time – Jeanne, Gare and Harry will meet with 
Martha. 
o Discussion about future goal settings and follow-up to be done by the trustees. 
Suggestion that target dates are added to goals, to provide milestones and measurable points. 
The targets are intended as indicators and mile-stones, and not as a “whip”, to make sure the 
board is aware of resources required to attain set goals, etc. 
 
 Friends of LPL Update 
o June book and bake sale coming up.  June 7th 9 – 2 p.m. 
 Volunteers are always needed to help set up, run and break down the book and bake 
sale.  Any contribution in time and/or effort is most welcome – not only from the Board, 
but from the general public as well.  Baked goods are definitely welcome! 
o Annual Friends meeting coming up, Saturday July 26 at 10 a.m.; pot luck breakfast. 
o Current President of Friends, Beverly Guerin is leaving, new officers will be selected at the annual 
meeting. 
o Jeanne will ask Lydia Henshaw to come to the June trustee meeting to give a full presentation of 
the Friends to the new board. 
 
 Board of Trustees Reorganization 
o For Chairman: Jean was nominated by Gare, seconded by Susan, voted: all in favor 
o For Vice-chairman: Dick was nominated by Jean, seconded by Robin, voted: all in favor 
o For Secretary: Lars was nominated by Gare, seconded by Robin, voted: all in favor 
o For Personnel subcommittee: Gare, Harry, Dick 
o For Policy subcommittee: Lars, Dick, Robin 
o For Budget subcommittee: Susan, Harry, Jean 
o For Endowment subcommittee: Jean, Susan 
 Motion by Jean to accept all committee members as listed: so moved by Susan, 
seconded by Dick, voted: all in favor. 
 
 
 Next LPL Trustee meeting will be held on 6/19/14 at 6:45 p.m. in the Lunenburg Public Library. 
 
 Motion to adjourn, made by Gare at 8:31 p.m., seconded by Dick, voted: all in favor. 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Board of Trustees, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for May 22, 2014 
Director’s report 
 