===PAGE 1===
 
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 1 of 2 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
February 20, 2014. 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Martha Moore, Lisa Krowitz, Robin Venezia, Lars Widstrand, Brian Laffond 
(FinCom Representative) 
Absent: Joanne McQuaid, Kathy Murray 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:47 pm in the Sudolnik conference room by Chairman Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public Comments 
o Susan Visser introduced, candidate for the Lunenburg Library Trustees. 
o Harry Kubetz introduced, candidate for the Lunenburg Library Trustees. 
o Discussion about the upcoming Town Caucus March 17 at 7:00 p.m.  Nominations to be held, two 
openings on the Trustees for three year terms respectively. 
 Agenda Items 
o Approval of minutes 
 January 16 minutes as amended; motion by Dick, seconded by Robin, approval by all present, 
Jeanne abstained. 
November 21 minutes as amended; motion by Dick, seconded by Robin, approved by Dick, 
Joanne, Kathy, Lisa and Robin.  Lars abstained. 
o Director’s Report for February 20, 2014 reviewed and discussed. 
 Staff 
 Discussed per report. 
 Budget 2014 
 Discussed per report. 
 General comments that the numbers “are holding” and that the Lunenburg P ublic 
Library is in “good shape” in the current F.Y. 
 Budget 2015 
 Discussed per report. 
 A shift from hard copy material towards more e-material in the future is likely. 
 Programs and Collections 
 Discussed per report. 
 Technology Update 
 Discussed per report. 
 Martha has driven the evaluation and mapping of the current technology in the 
library, using an external consultant.  A multitude of updates for both hardware and 
software have been implemented, and the work is continuing.  Results so far are 
very encouraging! 
o Friends of LPL: Updates 
 Cultural Horizon’s and programs continues with the Scandinavian (Nordic) theme. 
o Subcommittees: 
 Policy subcommittee (Lisa, Robin, Martha, Lars) meeting minutes for November 23, 2013 
submitted for approval.  Lars moved to approve as amended, Lisa second; all approve. 
 Personnel Subcommittee (Lisa, Dick, Jeanne) meeting minutes.  Move to accept as amended 
by Dick, second by Lisa, all approved. 
 Director’s Evaluation, discussion about format to be used for her evaluation, and modifications 
to surveys that will be used for better clarity. 

===PAGE 2===
 
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 2 of 2 
 Forms for the evaluation and content for cover letter was discussed.  See list of 
referenced documents at end of minutes 
Surveys to be returned by April 1st, personnel subcommittee will meet, collate and 
evaluate, all returned information. 
 Other 
o Kerry Speidel, Town Manager, will attend our March 20th meeting 
o FinCom presentation on March 6th at 7:00 p.m. in Town Hall. 
o Brian Laffond raised a question: “E-rate” funds for telecommunication.  Has the Library or the Trustees 
investigated this as a source for funding cost of internet? 
Information about the E-rate program can be found at 
https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/oii/nonpublic/erate.html 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn made by Dick, second by Robin at 8:26 p.m. all approve. 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for February 20, 2014 
Library Director’s March 20th Report 
Cover letter for Director’s Evaluation 
Director’s Evaluation forms for 2014 evaluation 