===PAGE 1===
 
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 1 of 2 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
January 16, 2014. 
 
Attending:, Dick Mailloux, Martha Moore, Joanne McQuaid, Lisa Krowitz, Kathy Murray, Robin Venezia, Lars 
Widstrand, Bob Ebersole (Selectmen Representative), Brian Laffond (FinCom Representative) 
Absent: Jeanne Raboin 
 
Meeting called to order at 6:45 pm in the Sudolnik conference room by Vice Chairman Dick Mailloux. 
 
 Public Comments 
o No public comments 
 
 Agenda Items 
o Approval of minutes 
 October 17 minutes as amended; motion by Dick, seconded by Joanne, unanimous approval 
vote. 
November 21 minutes as amended; motion by Dick, seconded by Robin, approve by Dick, 
Joanne, Kathy, Lisa and Robin.  Lars abstained (not present at that meeting) 
 
o Director’s Report 
 Director’s handouts reviewed and discussed: FY-15 budget. 
 Vote on FY-15 Director’s proposed budget of 353,206.00, (town budget):  Motion to 
accept proposed budget by Dick, seconded by Lars, all votes in favor. 
To maintain the Library Revolving Fund at the existing level of $8,000.00 to 
supplement library budget in order to meet state requirement.  Motion to accept by 
Lars, seconded by Robin, all votes in favor. 
 Programs 
 Several adult programs on the books – nutrition; wood turning; Cultural Horizons 
programs to run through March-14. 
 CWMARS Network meeting to discuss Evergreen. 
 Budget 
 Finances – we are on target for mid- fiscal year. 
 Discussion about heating, water and sewer bills for the year.  Questions about the 
interval for the water bills – they arrive “randomly” 
 Salaries – on target 
 Martha has received training on Muni system.  Not fully implemented (rights to enter 
new vendors, etc.) for Martha yet. 
 Weeding collections – teen’s is done, children’s estimated to be done by April, adult 
fiction ongoing. 
 Addressing issues with cleaning company through building/facilities.  Scheduling 
currently not working. 
 Jack put in for capital request for carpeting.  Discussion about the scheduling for 
installation – the replacement will require library closing. 
 Staff 
 Nothing major, Kate and Karen partnering with the Lunenburg School. 
 Discussion about staffing. 
 Library Technology 
 Website update 

===PAGE 2===
 
1023 Massachusetts Avenue • Lunenburg, MA 01462 • (978) 582-4140 
Page 2 of 2 
o January 25, launch date for new website, additional marketing for 
Wowbrary. New URL: www.lunenburglibrary.org.  Martha provided an 
extensive walk-through of the new website.  The trustees were very 
impressed with the layout, added functionality and options. 
 Technology Plan update 
o Desktop virtualization discussion 
o Servers on order; software on order, up and running hopefully by end of 
February. 
 Library Boiler 
 Jim and Kit found experts on the installed boiler.  The consultants visited ~ 2 weeks 
ago and spent a day going through the all settings and scheduling for the boiler – 
the initial program was not optimal.  The boiler has been working fine since their 
visit, holding temperature, turning up and down per schedule.  Quite possible fuel 
savings will be realized.  
o Friends of LPL: Updates 
 Cultural Horizon’s and programs update 
 Friends offered to pay for “deep cleaning” and sealing of bathrooms (grout, floor).  
o Subcommittees: 
 Personnel Subcommittee: Director’s Evaluation 
 Dick discussed about putting in “new system” for evaluation of director. Robin would 
like to see new evaluation “form” – not the same as last year.  It should reflect the 
departmental goals and tie with the expectations of the trustees.  Kathy wants to 
clarify the process of the evaluation.  Dick states that the goal setting.  Research the 
“360” assessment.  Lisa believes that the 360 assessment is easy to accomplish 
with open ended comments and informal descriptions. 
 Dick believes that the subcommittee need to meet within the next few weeks to 
establish what should be used. 
 Other 
o Lisa: will not go up for re-election to the LPL Trustees.  Kathy: will not go up for re-election to the LPL 
Trustees.  Check with talent bank if any people have listed interest.   
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn made by Joanne, second by Kathy at 8:35 p.m. 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for January 16, 2014 
Library Director’s FY-15 Budget Proposal, LPL Mission Statement and Goals 