===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
June 18, 2015; MaryAnn Sudolnik conference room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Harry Kubetz (via Facetime), Dick Mailloux, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Martha Moore (Library Director),  
Bob Ebersole (Selectman); Robin Venezia (public attendee) 
Absent: Lars Widstrand  
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
 
 Agenda items 
o Approval of Minutes 
 Minutes of March 19; 2015 with amendments/edits 
 Gare made motion to accept March 19 minutes, seconded by Harry; voted all in favor. 
 Minutes of May 21, 2015: 
 Amended “Balbony” on page 2 to “Balboni” 
 Gare made motion to approve minutes as amended; seconded by Susan; voted all in favor.  
 
o Director’s Report (Martha Moore), as per handout 
 YA librarian:  11 applicants, 4 interviewed; 2 standouts, who are local candidates.  Martha is checking references 
and expects to make a decision by 6/26/15. 
 Note:  Bob Ebersole joined meeting. 
 Children’s Librarian: One Lunenburg resident applied.   Requisition is posted with the town.  External posting will 
start 6/22/15.  Already have three resumes. 
 Martha is back full–time, except for time required for therapy treatments. 
 Budget: all spending is on-track 
o Electricity budget line item includes extra $16,000 from Town added to FY 15  
o Heat budget line item includes extra money from town.  Expecting one more FY15 heating bill to arrive in 
June or July. 
o Library materials:  some invoices have not gone through.   
 Collections:  Found money on some purchase orders that was unspent, on the order of $7,500.  Martha 
transferred to CWMARS budget to make State targets for materials and to partially address original goal  to spend 
about $14,000 on electronic materials.  $7,500 put into e-books, EEE and related in Overdrive. 
o Do e-materials purchased by LPL show up to patrons as owned by LPL? Probably not, but Martha is taking 
CWMARS training soon and can tell more then. 
o In July, the Commonwealth e-book system should be available to us. 
 CWMARS is paying for this for this year. 
 It is like Overdrive, but there are three databases.  It includes one that is more academic and one 
that is like Overdrive. 
 It has a different interface than Overdrive. 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
June 18, 2015; MaryAnn Sudolnik conference room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
 Summer Programs:   
o Summer reading program starts June 76. 
o Deb Shields assisting with Children’s summer programming.  M. Balboni assisting with Summer Reading 
Program. 
o Sandy Altucher is managing YA/Teen Sumer Reading Program and summer programs. 
o Note:  Robin joined meeting at this point. 
o FY 15 Final LPL Budget (as per handout) 
 Budget in handout in two formats: (1) Budget from the Town; (2) Library internal accounting budget.  
 Library budget is composed of amounts in Town budget plus the Town -voted increase in the heating and 
electricity budget. 
o Friends of LPL Book and Bake sale:  Sale made about $3,200.  Well attended.  Food was gone by 12:15 pm.  
o LPL Policy on Solicitations:  Response that Lars got from Town Counsel, Joel Bard, was distributed.  Policy will be on 
future Library Board of Trustees meeting agenda for discussion. 
o Farmer’s Market Proposal 
 Martha went to Farmer’s Market organizers meeting a few weeks ago.  They asked Martha if Farmer’s Market 
could be held on Library grounds. Organizers looking for visibility and marketing help.  Library would add Markets 
to our calendars and post notices. 
 Current Market has three vendors. 
 Market is currently 10 am to 1 pm Sunday afternoons. 
 Organizers not yet decided on where to put market on library grounds.  Options:  
o On lawn in front of library.  Good visibility in this spot. 
o On side of building, near Kid’s Kingdom.  
 In addition to vendors, may have musicians come.   
 Although there was discussion about needs for electricity from the Library, the organizers said that they could 
manage with generators, and all agreed that use of generators would be preferred.  Martha will tell them to plan 
on generator only. 
 The Farmer’s Market does not need access to the Library building or the restrooms.   The organizers are looking 
for use of parking lot and set-up space. 
 The Farmer’s Market at the Library would start after August 2 and run until October.  
 Harry comments that current attendance is low and that he would favor bringing the Market to the Library to 
improve Library involvement in the community and to benefit the community.  Martha, Gare voiced agreement. 
 Dick:  Do we have a contact if there are issues?  Martha says that they have a site manager who would be the 
contact. 
 Gare made a motion to approve having the Farmer’s Market use Library property under agr eement with the 
Library; seconded by Harry.  All voted in favor. 
o Meeting dates for 2015/2016 
 Calendar was reviewed.  Third Thursday of the month at 6:45 pm September to June looks acceptable, while 
acknowledging a possible conflict with school vacations in February. 
 Gare made motion to keep meetings at 6:45 pm on the third Thursday of the month from September to June; 
seconded by Dick.  All voted in favor. 
o Candidates for open Library Board of Trustees positions 
 Discussed last Trustees/BOS joint appointment to open position.  Bob confirmed that any time there is a vacant 
elected position that is unfilled by election, need to advertise to fill position.  Town Manager is responsible to 
advertise.   
 Dick reported that Library Board of Trustees advertisement was in newspaper.  Advertisement said closing date 
for applications is 6/25/15. Currently have two official applicants, Two others have expressed unofficial interest.  
 Need to interview applicants.   
 Gare moved to have Board of Trustees meeting on July 6, 2015 at 6:45 pm to interview candidates; seconded by 
Dick.  All voted in favor. 
===PAGE 3===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
June 18, 2015; MaryAnn Sudolnik conference room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
o Joint meeting with Board of Selectmen (BOS) 
 Dick will request BOS to add appointment of new Library Trustees to their July 14, 2015 agenda.  
o Director’s evaluation (Martha left meeting) – per handout 
 Gare will forward original input from Susan and Harry to Dick for Board of Trustees’ records.  Dick already has a 
copy of his input. 
 Reviewed Gare’s draft evaluation.  Evaluation in paragraph form becau se of unusual last year (Martha’s time out 
of work due to injury).  Susan suggested an edit to remove last sentence in second to last paragraph. All agreed. 
 Gare made motion to accept edited 2014/2015 evaluation with suggested edit; seconded by Harry.  All voted in 
favor. 
 Salary increase to reflect favorable review discussion:  Dick noted that Union salary increase in Lunenburg was 
1.5%. Town Manager increase was 2%.  Susan reviewed previous year’s data on salaries of Library Directors 
from other towns, noting that a raise in the 2% range would keep us in line with other libraries of similar 
communities.   
 Dick moved to increase Martha’s salary to $64,500 for 2016 fiscal year; seconded by Harry.  All voted in favor.  
 Dick will update Martha’s contract with new rate to present to Martha with the Director’s evaluation.  Dick and 
Susan will meet with Martha to review the evaluation. 
o Board comments 
 Harry contacted John Londa and Kit to follow-up on learning more about the Library facility. 
 Dick informed us that the Friends of LPL annual meeting and potluck is in July. 
o Agenda items for upcoming meetings.  Suggestions were: 
 Dick:  LPL Policy on Solicitations 
 Dick:  Director’s Evaluation Process and Documents for 2015/2016 
 Gare:  Future Plans for Library 
 Dick:  Review Town’s Green Policy 
 Dick: How to Maintain Strong Contact with Friends of LPL 
 Bob: Capital Planning to Meet Town’s Accelerated Schedule 
 
 Adjourn 
o Gare moved to adjourn the meeting; seconded by Dick.  All voted in favor at 7:57 pm.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Susan Visser 
Vice Chair, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for June 18, 2015 
Library Director’s Report 
Director’s Evaluation 
Town of Lunenburg/Lunenburg Public Library Budget 
May 28, 2015 e-mail from Joel Bard on Solicitation Policy and draft Solicitation Policy 
 