===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
April 23, 2015; MaryAnn Sudolnik conference room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Harry Kubetz, Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore 
Bob Ebersole (Selectman) - arrived at 8:43 p.m.; Troy Daniels (visitor) - arrived at 8:43 p.m. 
Absent: Dick Mailloux 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public Comment 
o Rain headlight law – Lars reminded about the new Mass State Law on the roads: with vehicle wipers on, the state 
requires headlights on, not just day-time driving lights. 
 Agenda items 
o Approval of Minutes 
 Jeanne made a motion to table both (open session and executive session) meeting minutes for the March 19th 
meeting due to pending consultation with the State Attorney General; so moved by Gare, second by Susan; voted 
all in favor.  Jeanne will contact State Attorney General for clarification on executive session practices. 
 April 1, 2015 motion to approve minutes as amended, so moved by Harry, second by Gare, voted all in favor, 
except Susan, abstained - not present at April 1st meeting. 
 
o Green Committee Update (Dave Blatt) 
 Lighting Conversion Update by Robin 
Visit from the Green Committee, from here on referred to as G.C.: 
    Dave Blatt – Green Committee 
    Neil Sullivan – Green Committee 
    Zachary Cutting – Green Committee 
    Joanne McQuaid – Green Committee 
Robin: requested status on Guardian Electric report – in process (Martha) 
Robin shared her findings of a light-meter survey she executed during a cloudy day; at day-time and night-time; 
Robin noted low illumination in several library areas: 
   Children’s section, in multiple areas 
   Main hall: front stacks, DVDs and paper backs 
   Hallway by drinking fountain is below approved light level (at all times) 
   At night-time, front desk is below approved light level. 
Teen room was OK, slightly low light levels at computers, but still within approved limits. 
In general, rooms that have window exposure have better light levels during day time than night time. 
At night, most areas are at, or below minimum. 
Question: Can we (LPL) get publicity in the Lunenburg Ledger about outdoor lighting project before May 2nd (town 
meeting)?  The information needs to be at the Lunenburg Ledger on/before 4/28 (press-time deadline). 
Book drop off slots need to have minimum illumination of 2-5 ft. cd at all times 
Walk-way bollards to be lit until 10:30 p.m. – a question was raised about lights out to the curb after that time. 
Question: How to program the lights when the library is not normally open (and how to decide when they should 
be on or off)? 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
April 23, 2015; MaryAnn Sudolnik conference room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
Future task: Review policy for how long public events can go on (for reason of lighting and liability) – when should 
the library be completely closed (i.e. meeting rooms)? 
 Dave Blatt (G.C.) – lights, fixtures, how to use existing lights (desk lights?) up-lights – when do they start add to 
room lighting. 1st figure out where bulbs are missing; what’s the easiest route, what’s the most cost effective route, 
short term versus longer term solution. 
 Survey of [functioning/non-functioning] bulbs to give to G.C. (for cost of bulbs estimate) 
The up-lights – no given solution to them yet. (Harry asked) Martha – Guardian should have been here to test out 
possible up-light alternatives. 
Zachary Cutting (G.C.): heat and motion sensors in the rooms – to turn off lights in non-occupied rooms/areas. 
(sound- and heat-sensors) 
 Gare requested that we use the same company that did the outside lights to come in to the library and do the 
inside survey.  (Dave: contact John Londa and ask for the consultants to come in). 
At Eagle house: over a 100 bulbs replaced, total expense was <$3,000.00; energy savings 1/3. Additional fixture 
updates will be done @ Eagle house later. 
Survey for library needs to come first – can we replace bulbs only…? 
Jeanne thanked the G.C. for all the work done with the outside lights, etc.. 
 
o Director’s Report (Martha) 
 FY15 Budget Adjustment – going to the town meeting May 2nd  
Monies may be left over from the electrical line, that could be moved to the heating line; some monies left from 
Terry’s compensation also moved to heating… 
 Collections: $16,000.00 left/available. 
 Building Damage Update 
Repairs not complete yet – all ceilings are restored; sprinkler system is on-line; teen room gutted 4/24 to prepare 
for cork floor replacement – will be out of commission for a week+.  Gare suggested a note to be sent to 
middle/high school informing that the teen room will temporarily be out of commission.  
“Back closet” behind Martha’s office, new access panel is installed in the ceiling to get to the heating coils.  
Cleaners are cleaning out the “back closet” tonight 4/23/15.  It will be completely empty now, in order to 
[temporarily] store some of teen room material. 
ServPro needs to come back and clean some carpeting and some bookshelves; last thing is to get alarm system 
on-line. 
 
 Personnel 
Lovely going away party for Kate – steady stream of people from afternoon until evening. 
Karen leaves officially July 3rd, has accrued vacation to burn, she goes on vacation in June. 
Kate’s job opening given to the union, posted, runs until April 27th, then it can be opened up for external 
applicants. 
Martha has asked Karen to put some [children’s] summer programs in place. 
Staff scheduling is hard with both Kate and Karen leaving; Martha has asked if remaining staff would like extra 
hours. 
Review would be hard for Martha to perform for Staff.  Gare asked if Martha would feel OK with doing it around 
September instead – positive response.  Susan would like goals set for Martha at the time for goals are set for the 
rest of the staff for 2015/2016. 
 
 FY 2016 Budget 
Waiting for the town meeting… then we’ll crunch the numbers. 
 
o Petitions and LPL (Lars) 
===PAGE 3===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
April 23, 2015; MaryAnn Sudolnik conference room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
 As per handout 
Children’s room and teen room excluded, Bob suggested Map and Hours for when we would allow. 
Bob also suggested that we go through Town Manager ask Town Counsel about an interpretation. 
 
o Director’s Evaluation Essays 
 One delivered by Dick.  Martha will be sending out a self-evaluation, we will provide “essays” based on her goals 
and comments. 
 
 Other 
o None 
 
 Adjourn 
o Jeanne asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting; so moved by Gare; second by Harry; voted all in favor at 9:07 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for April 23, 2015 
 