===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
March 19, 2015; Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha 
Moore, Kate McCarron (part of meeting), Karen Kemp (part of meeting) 
 
 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
 Changes to agenda: 
o Jeanne asked for a motion to remove Feb 5th minutes from the approval list, since they were already 
approved at the last meeting; so moved by Gare, second by Harry; voted all in favor. 
o Jeanne asked for a motion to move the Green Community Committee agenda item to after budget 
discussion; so moved by Dick, second by Susan; voted all in favor. 
o Jeanne asked for a motion to move discussion about YA and children’s librarians’ upcoming retirements to 
be first on the agenda; so moved by Susan, second by Dick; voted all in favor. 
 Karen Kemp and Kate McCarron: Retirement 
o Kate discussed her experiences as a YA librarian, stressing the necessity to collaborate with the Lunenburg 
school system.  Kate delivered an excellent summary page “Key Assets for a YA Librarian”, which 
highlighted desired competencies and challenges for the position. 
o Karen mentioned a growing number of grandparents are bringing in young children, for early morning  
activities. Lego-clubs, etc.  Could the programs for really young children be complemented by “programs for 
grandparents” to bring in more people? 
With the new primary/elementary school being located off-campus; it is hard to get the young children in after 
school. 
o  Discussion – Jeanne asked about private pre-schools/day care and their participation in the library – many 
legal issues with transportation, etc. creates obstacles. 
o Kate and Karen were thanked for their input; they left the meeting after this agenda item. 
 Approval of Minutes 
o Jeanne asked for motion to accept 2/19/15 minutes as amended; so moved by Dick, second by Robin; voted 
all in favor. 
 Director’s Report, presented by Martha. 
o Schedule-juggling, figure out how to staff until we get a replacement librarian. 
o Sandy Altucker has stepped up to be interim teen librarian until new hire.  
o Marabeth(?) will help with the acquisition of materials (lists) 
 Current FY-15 budget to date discussed 
o Materials spending discussed – we are currently “behind” on [yearly] materials acquisitions. 
o Building status discussed 
[Post water damage disaster] Jeanne suggested that the library should be tested for mold again later in the 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
March 19, 2015; Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
season, to be sure that the library is “in the clear”. 
Teen room will most likely be renovated in the April timeframe. 
o Programming, Martha has requested that Karen and Kate make a list of ideas/contacts for summer 
programs.  Deb Shields will continue to assist with adult programs, together with Martha. 
 FY 2016 Budget 
o Discussion about the budget presented at the FinCom meeting.  
Need to schedule special meeting with Kerry, suggested to be on April 2nd with John Henshaw, Bob 
Ebersole, to clear up the utilities portion of the 2016 budget. 
o Jeanne asked for a motion to be in response to Kerry’s email on the adjusted budget numbers; to invite Kerry 
Speidel, Bob Ebersole and John Henshaw to discuss the utilities portion of the 2016 budget on April 2nd 
during a specially called meeting; so moved by Gare, second by Harry, voted all in favor. 
 Green Community Committee update: Robin – 
o exterior lights project update 
o interior lights project update – plan is to use a light meter and register exiting light levels at various points in 
the library: reading areas, shelving areas, desk (check-in/out) areas, staff work areas, meeting rooms, 
hallways, etc.  Readings to be put in a spread sheet and compared to published norms for [library] light 
levels. 
 
 Personnel 
o Staff possibly approaching Trustees direct (bypassing the director) with grievances.  
Following a brief discussion, it was the unanimous voice of the trustees that any such possible incident would 
be referred to the LPL Director to resolve. 
Martha laid out her plan for the new YA and children’s librarian positions:  
 One idea that had been brought up [previously] was to merge the two positions into one. 
Martha maintained that due to the lay-out of the LPL YA and children’s section, this would not be an optimal solution. 
Also, that the difference in the age groups would call for persons with different strengths, experiences and 
personalities. 
 Reduce the children’s librarian’s weekly work hours from current 36 to 25 and add a “youth services assistant” to help 
with daily programs and responsibilities for both YA and children’s section.  
 YA and children’s librarians to concentrate on collection development and program development. (Being offloaded by 
the assistant.) 
 Make sure that the staffing work schedule for the new hires match the visiting children’s hours, i.e. that the librarians 
are onsite when the kids are in the library, specifically Saturdays. 
 Martha wants to form a “mini-panel” with participants from other libraries to help with the interviewing process of the 
potential candidates. 
 Preferred background for the potential candidates: MLS or equivalent experience, to keep field open for applicants with 
a good work history and experience. 
  
===PAGE 3===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
March 19, 2015; Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
 
 Other 
o For next agenda, the trustees annual evaluation of the Director to commence 
Requested that Martha send out an overview of goals vs. accomplishments (taking her absence into 
consideration) of the year for Trustees to discuss at the 23rd meeting, and base our evaluation on that 
information. 
 Jeanne requested the April 23rd [ordinary trustee meeting] to be moved out one week; so moved by Gare, second by 
Dick; voted all in favor. 
 Adjourn 
o Jeanne asked for a motion to adjourn; so moved by Gare, second by Dick; voted all in favor at 9:19 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for March 19, 2015 