===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
October 15, 2015; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Richard Mailloux, Harry Kubetz (via internet), Kiirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Gare Thompson, Lars Widstrand, Martha 
Moore – Director, LPL 
Absent: Susan Visser 
 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:475p.m. by Chairperson Richard Mailloux. 
Noted: the meeting is conducted in the Sudolnik conference room and not in the Wallace community room. 
Noted: Harry Kubetz is participating via Internet; he is geographically distant.  
Noted: The Chairman stated that the Trustees had a [physically present member] quorum, but due to Harry participating via 
Internet, all votes will be conducted using roll-call. 
 
o Public Comment 
o No public comment 
 
o Agenda items 
o Minutes of 9-17-15. Motion from Dick, second by Gare to accept amended minutes. 
Vote by roll call: Richard (aye), Donna (aye), Gare (aye), Kiirja (aye), Lars (aye), Harry (aye, via Internet). 
 
o Director’s Report – as per handout 
o Budget – on target 
o Staff – Robin Morris, new page, is coming up to speed. Page Joe Rager is resigning; need to hire a 
replacement page; Martha is investigating the possibilities and looking for candidates. 
The staff has been hit with sickness; which creates a perpetual understaffing situation; Robin Morris has 
been covering as many hours as possible. 
o Martha to attend meeting to discuss proposed changes to the State Library funding formula on Monday 
10/19/15. 
o Sandy and Martha will attend training on the MLS system on Wednesday 10/21/15. 
o Library website “walk through” and demonstration by Martha: it will take place at later date, due to a 
scheduling conflict with the Wallace community room. 
o Issues with Chrome web browser has been discovered after the latest updates (of Chrome). Plug-ins, etc. no 
longer works or are blocked by Chrome. Using Internet Explorer as work-around. 
 
o YA librarian’s report – per separate hand out 
o Children librarian’s report – per separate hand out 
 
o Programs: 
o Zombie night on Friday night (for YA) in entire library 10/23 - Halloween teenage dance 
o UKE 101 on Saturday 10/24 Ukulele class and presentation, by Jim Webster, Nashua River Instruments 
o Saturday 10/24 – Sci-Fi/Fantasy special book sale in the Café 
o Sunday 10/25, softer side of Celtic (Jeff Snow), music and story telling 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
October 15, 2015; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o First Halloween Parade 10/28 in the Children’s Story/Craft room 
o In November, a visitor from New Hampshire will talk about stone walls. 
 
o Building & Maintenance 
o Preparing for new burner and management system to be installed; in place hopefully mid-November, ready 
for the cold season 
 
o ARIS Report 
o Annual report information survey (usage of library data – hard copy distributed today), done in August, next 
report (financial) due second week of October, which is what the state requires of the town to spend  
o MAR number report to be sent out by Martha Moore before next meeting. 
 
o Trustee email addresses: 
o Tying in to OML discussion and preservation of email and documentation history, we are encouraged to use 
only this mail for trustee business.  All trustees have each been assigned an official “town”-address. 
 
o OML presentation/training by Kopelman and Paige (from here on referred to as K&P); discussion by Richard on what 
the town-wide presentation/training encompassed. 
o Some highlights:  
Subcommittees (personnel, budget, etc.) must post meetings 48 hours in advance, adhere to an agenda and 
keep minutes of the minutes – same as the trustees in general. 
Email communications – are expressly talked about in the OML, including use of social media e.g. Twitter, 
etc. 
Public comment – can be optional at meetings; items brought up at public comment may be postponed for 
discussion and put on later agenda (preferred) 
Remote participation – requires quorum of the people PHYSICALLY present at the meeting. 
 
o Policy for solicitation – Lars presented the response and recommendations from K&P on the subject, as well as the e-
mail sent by K&P with comments to the recommendations. 
o Gare moved that take the draft home to review and that Lars will bring a “fresh” copy of the Policy with the 
recommendations by K&P amended into the policy for next meeting; the “fresh” copy, if accepted, will be 
added to general policies of the library; Donna seconded, no further discussion. 
Vote by roll call: Richard (aye), Donna (aye), Gare (aye), Kiirja (aye), Lars (aye), Harry (aye, via Internet).  
 
o Skateboard ban: 
o Policy on using the area in front of library property including parking lot to be off limits – requested by Martha 
Moore.  In order to post sign, the trustees must approve of the posting(s).  Martha Moore will check with 
other libraries and towns on wording for the sign. 
 
o Plans for Director’s evaluation –  
o Richard will email form to the trustees used at previous evaluations to be discussed during the next trustee 
meeting. 
 
 
o Friends of LPL update – Kiirja went to their meeting and presented a summary of their discussions 
o Book and bake sale: complaint about professional dealers/resellers showing up and buying up books in bulk, 
reducing the availability for ordinary customers; $ 3,338.21 total in sales of baked goods and books. 
o Next Friends of LPL meeting November 2nd (6:30 p.m.) 
 
===PAGE 3===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
October 15, 2015; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
o Board comments 
o Comments on upcoming budget discussion – talking points: “what a bargain for the town the Library is”; with 
all programs (and expanding programs) in place; raising the possibility to increase library opening hours. We 
need to have full set of arguments for why we need more hours (like Friday open).  Martha will do another 
survey of area libraries on hours, usage etc. 
 
o Agenda Items for Upcoming Meeting 
o Web site demonstration – Wallace room 
o Policy on room use 
o Policy on solicitation and skate-board 
o Director’s evaluation, form discussion 
o Library trust funds 
o Re-establish the policy subcommittee 
o BOS Energy policy 
 
o Next Trustee Meeting 
o Wallace community center room, November 19, 2015 at 6:45 p.m. 
 
o Adjourn 
o Gare moved to adjourn second by Kiirja 
Vote by roll call: Richard (aye), Donna (aye), Gare (aye), Kiirja (aye), Lars (aye), Harry (aye, via Internet)  in 
favor at 8:14 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for October 15, 2015 
Director’s report 
YA librarian’s report 
Children librarian’s report 
ARIS statistics 
Community Outreach Log 
K&P email and Solicitation Policy recommendations 