===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
April 1, 2015; MaryAnn Sudolnik conference room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz (via call-in), Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Lars Widstrand, Martha 
Moore 
Kerry Speidel (Town Manager), John Henshaw (Finance Committee), Bob Ebersole (Selectman)  
Absent: Susan Visser 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:34 p.m. by Chairperson Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
 Agenda items 
o Fiscal Year 2016 Budget (All) 
 
Discussion about FY-2016 budget for L.P.L., and how it relates to the utility cost this past year and forward. 
Town Manager (T.M.) stated:  The budget reflects minimum amount of spending for Fiscal 16, without taking into account 
individual lines (i.e. utilities).  After budget, the T.M. started looking at utility bills, estimated current fiscal year (FY2015) 
~$36,000.00 vs. appropriated $30,000.00. 
Budget for FY-2016, the amount will not be sufficient (recognized by the T.M.) to cover for projected utilities. 
Can we seek state’s approval to remove the utilities from library budget? Current rules do not allow it, or make it impossibl e due 
to state required spending based on population, etc. 
Bottom line is that LPL needs the increased amount of funding based on state rules and to cover the actuals for utilities.  
According to Martha, the difference between the Library’s suggested budget and the T.M.’s suggested numbers is ~$12,300.00. 
 
The T.M., Bob and Harry (call with Harry ended) left the meeting at 7:17 p.m. 
 
Dick made a motion that we increase our budget request with $14,250.60 over the town manager’s preliminary recommendation, 
second by Gare; voted all in favor. 
 
 Other 
o none 
 Adjourn 
o Jeanne asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting; so moved by Gare; second by Dick; voted all in favor at 7:47 
p.m.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for April 1, 2015 
