===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
September 17, 2015; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz (via internet), Kiirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars 
Widstrand, Martha Moore – Director, LPL; 
Robert Ebersole – BOS liaison; Terri Burchfield – FinCom liaison 
Absent: None 
 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
 
 Agenda items 
o Welcome to new members of the Trustees, Kiirja Paananen and Donna Saiia. 
o Welcome to new FinCom liaison, Terri Burchfield 
o Introduction of new staff 
Martha Moore announced the new hires for the library staff: 
o Nicole Piermarini, YA services librarian introduced herself and her plans for the YA section.  
o Debbie Lafond, children’s services librarian introduced herself and her plans for the children’s section. 
o Robin Morris, new page 
 
o Committee assignments 
o Donna Saiia – asking about technology, web presence, computers, will serve on the budget committee as 
per the Chairman’s suggestion. 
o Kiirja Paananen will join the Personnel committee, per the Chairman’s and Kiirja’s agreement. 
o Gare Thompson opened up a discussion about creating a “marketing committee” how to plan for and market 
the library; the idea will be added as discussion on an upcoming agenda. 
 
o Approval of Minutes 
o Gare moved that all three outstanding minutes could be approved; Harry seconded, voted all in favor 
 June 18, 2015 
 July 6, 2015 
 July 14, 2015 
  

===PAGE 2===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
September 17, 2015; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o Director’s Report 
 Discussed and explained by the Director, as per hand-out 
 ARIS Report (explanation) 
 Annual Report Information Survey (usage of library data), done in August, next report 
(financial) due second week of October, which deals with what the state requires of the 
town to spend. 
 
(Gare Thompson left the meeting at 7:50 p.m.) 
 
o Update on Building Management System  
 Building management system (new front-end) and new burner to be installed mid-November 
o The Chairman stated that Harry’s and Martha’s report on the building management system will not be 
discussed until the new system is installed. 
 
 Board Comments 
o (This section is intended as an FYI, i.e. information from Friends, etc.) 
o Sign up for book and bake sale 9/30. 
o 12/5 (Saturday) 10th anniversary celebration of the Lunenburg Public Library building. 
 
 Agenda Items for Upcoming Meetings 
 
o BOS Energy policy 
o National Grid Energy Audit 
o Lars solicitation policy findings 
o Remote participation policy – a state policy available? 
o Library trust funds Dick: November update from Martha? 
o Lunenburg online mail account – should be used in the future as part of the open meeting law. 
 
 Motion to adjourn 
o Lars moved to adjourn at 8:20 p.m., seconded by Susan; voted all in favor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for September 17, 2015 
Director’s report 