===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
May 21, 2015; MaryAnn Sudolnik conference room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Harry Kubetz, Dick Mailloux, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore 
Bob Ebersole (Selectman) 
Absent: none 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:46 p.m. by Vice Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
 Welcome New/Re-elected Members 
o Two re-elected, Gare Thompson and Lars Widstrand for three year terms. 
 Agenda items 
o Approval of Minutes 
 Minutes of March 19; 2015 with amendments/edits 
 Fold the minutes of the executive session into the regular minutes since the session was not regarded to 
be covered under the ten reasons allowed. Gare made motion to add executive session minutes to March 
19 minues, second by Harry second; voted all in favor. 
Thereby, table of approval of March 19 meeting minutes until June 18 (until post edits). 
 Minutes of April 23, 2015 motion to approve minutes as amended, so moved by Harry, second by Gare ; voted all 
in favor, except Dick, abstained - not present at April 23rd meeting. 
 
o Board of Trustee reorganization - subcommittees 
 Personnel: Gare Thompson, Harry Kubetz, Dick Mailloux 
 Policy: Susan moved to dissolve the policy subcommittee, Second by Gare, voted all in favor. 
 Budget: Harry Kubetz, Gare Thompson 
 Endowment: Susan Visser, Dick Mailloux 
 Gare made a motion to accept all suggestions for subcommittee members, second by Harry; voted 
all in favor 
o Susan nominated Dick Mailloux for Chairperson, second by Lars; voted all in favor. 
o Lars nominated Susan Visser for ViceChair, second by Gare; voted all in favor. 
o Gare nominated Lars Widstrand for secretary, second by Susan; voted all in favor. 
 
o BOS Approved Energy Policy 
Bob Ebersole – update of Green Committee presentation to BOS.  If library policies allow for [room] use past the town 
recommendation, we need to file that as an amendment to the Green Committee when we adopt the Approved Energy 
Policy. 
Martha is talking to Guardian re: writing grant proposals, etc. for the energy policy. 
To be added to September agenda to discuss and adopt the approved energy policy. 
Harry suggested that the Trustees assign a point person to become familiar with the overall building management 
(lighting, heating, etc.) system.  Harry volunteered to be this point person for contacts between John Londa, Green 
Committee, Martha and the Lunenburg DPW. 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
May 21, 2015; MaryAnn Sudolnik conference room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
 
o Director’s Report (Martha Moore), as per handout 
 Budget  
 Staff 
 Building Damage Update 
 Lighting and Energy 
 YA, received several external resumes, interviews of week of June 15 th, start date of mid-July, to be concluded at 
end of July. 
Sandy Altucher helps with YA until new librarian is hired. 
 Children’s librarian will be posted “in-town” external posting after June 23, estimated start date late August early 
September; Debora Shields + Marabeth Balboni will help with children’s section. 
 Open-house party for [retiring children’s librarian] Karen Kemp June 18th  
 
 LPL Policy on Solicitations 
waiting for information from Town Counsel – bring back up in June’s meeting… get more info from Bard. 
 Director’s Evaluation – at this point, the Director (Martha Moore) left the meeting. 
Trustees discussed their individual assessments of the Director, written and oral.  
 
 Other 
o Dick: contact spread sheet to collect trustees addresses and telephone numbers. 
o Book and bake sale June 6th + help pack up after the sale 
o 6/3 from 3-5 to move books prior to the sale. 
o Odds and ends from Lynne Klaft, Town Clerk Office: post notices – if Monday is a holiday (normal posting 
day), the agenda needs to be posted the Thursday prior. 
o Update policy for room use to allow for only non-profit use, i.e. not paid-for music lessons, paid-for tax advice 
etc. 
 
 Adjourn 
o Dick asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting, so moved by Gare; second by Harry; voted all in favor at 9:17 p.m.  
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for May 21, 2015 
 