===PAGE 1===
 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
January 15, 2015; Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha 
Moore (by telephone), Teresa Hathaway, Robert Ebersole (Selectmen representative), Joanna Bilotta-Simeone (Planning 
Board), Jamie Toale (Building Re-use Sub Committee), Adam Burger (Land Use Director) 
Absent:  
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public comment: None 
 
 Approval of LPL Trustee Meeting minutes 12-18-14, with revisions recommended by the Trustees.  Motion by Gare, 
second by Dick; voted all in favor. 
 
 Joanna Bilotta-Simeone (Planning Board) and Jamie Toale (Building Re-use Sub Committee) 
o Village District Bylaws draft, Passios Boundary and Memorial Drive 
o Background information from Adam Burger 
o Planning board has made an 18 month look at Village; small scale commerce; walkable; in harmony with rest 
of Lunenburg’s appeal. 
Village is considered ¼ mile radius from the intersection 2A, Lancaster Ave. Desired design is something that 
work with existing buildings, town hall, library, etc., that does not break the style of a New England small 
town. Most homes are mid-18th century (some exceptions).  Residential district feel to be maintained.  
o Question from the trustees concerning the plan and how it impacts the Library and town  (Jeanne) 
 The library would be within the ¼ mile radius district. 
 Toale: school owns T.C. Passios and Brookes’ house, town hall and Ritter building owned by town; 
changes in ownership of them requires town meeting vote, old primary school, old West St. hw. 
Dept. building.  Zoning decision steers how to dispose of surplus buildings, so nothing has been 
set “up for sale” yet. 
 Gare: important that we [the library/trustees] are kept informed about the processes, and that we 
get a representative on the reuse/zoning discussion – the entrance road to T.C. Passios was 
invested in by the library – do we get any compensation if the road is “taken”? 
 Jeanne: talked about campus – we constructed the library in conjunction with the needs of the 
school district, in a safe environment (roads limited use).  Possible parking issues, (donated) 
garden – how that it is affected, safety for seniors, kid’s kingdom, teen center… Possible 
commercial properties in the area, max 5000 sq. ft. (CVS @ Whalom is 15,000 sq. ft. or three 
commercial uses) 
 Joanne suggests that we get a rep. for School Committee meetings to listen in and representation, 
since the schools decisions can affect the LPL 
 26 Jan, 9 Feb, 23 Feb (information) 7 p.m. Planning board meetings before the public hearing. 
 
 LPL Draft Budget FY16 
o Martha – discussed the budget proposal, she questioned how the materials and energy portion for the 
upcoming year are anchored. 
o Teresa on utilities, deficit to cover the rest of FY-15 to cover energy costs, total ~$14.5k, this should go in the 
letter to the FinCom. 
o Motion for Teresa/Martha to submit amended budget proposal as presented to Kerry Speidel, motion by 
Lars, second by Dick, voted all in favor. 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
January 15, 2015; Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
 Lunenburg Financial Committee: Drafted letter concerning increase in electric utilities budget line 
o Jeanne – draft updated with $15k, changed some wording to cover both electrical and heating.  
o Martha asked for copies of the utilities contracts (Teresa will ask John Londa for those) so we can see what 
the charges actually are. 
o Robin had a suggestion to add to the letter – we are working with Green Energy Task Force to attempt to 
lower our energy cost. 
 
 Capital Planning 
o FY 15 Appropriation: Carpeting vs. Building Management System: HVAC control hardware and software  
o Jeanne suggest taking carpeting monies and put to use for HVAC, however, the monies need to be re -
appropriated for this use. 
o Discussion ensued on Green Task Force if they could provide monies for boiler replacement/HVAC 
management… 
o Harry will call Kit to get energy efficiency numbers for old (existing) burner/boiler vs. a new system (and 
building management system cost), to provide to Robin and Dick to bring to the Green Task Force. 
o Teresa will get in touch with Kit for a new quote for carpet replacement. 
 
 Green Task Force: Library lighting 
o Martha suggests that we get the consultant the town has already used to come in and look at the current 
upward facing fixtures to be replaced.  Harry will talk to Kit about that (to bring him in). To ask the consultant 
(Guardian) to evaluate and come up with replacement suggestions. 
 
 Other: 
o January 27 6-7 p.m. social for all boards, might be in the library 
 
 Next meeting: 
o February 19, 2015, at 6:45 p.m. in the Mary Ann Sudolnik Conference Room. 
 
 Adjourn 
o Jeanne asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting; so moved by Dick, second by Susan; voted all in favor @ 
9:17 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for January 15, 2014 