===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
December 17, 2015; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, 
Terri Burchfield, FinCom representative 
Absent: Bob Ebersole, Martha Martha Moore – Director, LPL 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes 
o November 19, 2015 
o Susan moved to accept the minutes as presented, Kirja second; voted: all in favor 
 
 Director’s Report 
o Budget – on track; noted that Office supplies line item will increase in the future due to the large increase in 
usage for [material for] program activities in Children and Young Adults area. 
o Staff – expect to backfill position vacated by Sandy Altucher by end of February. 
o Holiday Hours: December 2015/January 2016 operating hours 
o Programs 
o Educational outreach update 
o Building & Maintenance 
 Harry expressed desire to become familiar with the new heating system and understand its 
administration; Harry will contact DPW for an informational meeting on how-to perform remote log-
in and control, etc.  Noted that it was the intent of the board (taken at previous meeting) that Harry 
would do this; due to holidays, it will most likely take place in February 2016. 
o Capital Planning 
 Per separate handout 
o FY16-17 Draft Budget--progress 
 YA librarian report distributed and discussed. 
 Children’s librarian report distributed and discussed. 
o The trustees expressed kudos for all the programs and activities the new librarians have introduced, which 
have brought in many more young patrons to the library.  “Traffic” has notably increased during slow hours. 
 
 Policies 
o Solicitation – Lars handed out cleaned up copy of the proposed policy text. 
 Policy was read through and discussed.   Motion was made to incorporate the text of the 
Solicitation policy into Library policy.  Motion made by Gare, seconded by Harry; voted: all in favor 
o Skateboard ban 
 Actually called Child Safety policy; read and discussed – final “BOLDED” [text] paragraph needs 
some work… Suggested alternate wording: 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
December 17, 2015; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
“No one, children or adults, is allowed to use skateboards and other such equipment recreationally 
on Library Property.” 
 Suggestion by Gare to instate a temporary ad-hoc policy-review group (for all policies); 
implementation T.B.D. 
 
o Room use by for-profit entities; Dick will put this item on the agenda for general discussion in January. 
 Boston Public Library (BPL) policy on the topic, handed out by Donna: 
 Read through and discussed the BPL document.  Specific points include how to deal with 
tutoring from both a child safety and remuneration (non-profit) standpoint. 
 The Trustees were encouraged to read through LPL policies before next meeting to 
familiarize themselves with them.  They are available on the LPL website. 
 
 Friends of LPL Update 
o Dick attended meeting at beginning of month. 
o “First People” - Cultural Horizon program to be held in early 2016. 
 
 Board Comments 
o No Board Comments 
 
 Agenda Items for upcoming meetings 
o Library Trust Funds – January 
o Establish a Marketing/Technology sub committee 
o BOS Energy Policy 
o Planning for LPL Director evaluation 
 Trustees to read through present document before next meeting, to either tweak document or use 
as-is.  Schedule to be set so that evaluation will be complete by April 2016. 
 
 Other 
o Comment from Dick on kudos from Lunenburg Historical Society regarding working with Martha. 
 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn made by Gare, second by Donna; voted: all in favor at 8:00 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for December 17, 2015 
Director’s report 
YA report 
Children’s librarian report 
BPL policy 