===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
February 19, 2015; Ritter Memorial Building, lower level conference area 
 
Attending: Jeanne Raboin, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Gare Thompson, Robin Venezia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha 
Moore, Teresa Hathaway, Robert Ebersole (Selectmen representative) 
Amanda Koeck – reporter, Lunenburg Ledger 
Absent: (none) 
 
The meeting was called to order at 6:47 p.m. by Chairperson Jeanne Raboin. 
 
 Public Comment 
No public comment 
 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes 
o January 15, 2015 Gare made a motion to accept minutes as amended, second by Dick, voted all in favor 
o February 5, 2015 Jeanne requested a motion; so moved by Gare, second by Dick, voted all in favor 
 Director’s Report  
FY 2015 Budget 
o Teresa stated that $1500 electricity and $1500 for (Unitil and other Electric source) remains 
~7k left for heating (Natural Gas) 
On schedule with rest of budget 
Our biggest concern is utilities and heating… 
 FY 2016 Budget/March 5, 2015 Finance Committee Presentation 
o Trustees will be present at the March 5th presentation; 
o Martha: discussed the slide presentation to be given at the FinCom meeting. Individual slides were explained 
and information expanded upon. Discussion how to present the Library’s needs in the form of use-statistics 
vs. town population growth (ratio). Discussion on impact of expenses not covered under town budget (friend s 
funded items + state grants) – no guarantee that these funds come in to LPL. 
 Personnel 
o Kate’s last day is March 31st; Karen still looking at July 3rd 
o Teresa had gathered information about other comparable [town] libraries’ pay range for the different 
positions, as a foundation for our replacement strategy for the YA and Children’s librarian.  We will discuss 
our options at the next meeting. Opinions sought on bronze plaque with names of librarians that have worked 
many years at LPL 
 Building Damage (2/17/15) Update and Next Steps 
o LPL Probably not operable for another week (Kit info).  Heat back in the south side (bathrooms, community 
rooms, staff rooms).  Heating Coils were burst in the ceiling; ServPro has been in every day, cleaning, 
dispensing mold-preventing chemicals. 
Only “emergency” work being done, emptying book return bins, dealing with inter -library loan returns. 
New heating coils will be in on Monday; old coils will have to be removed; installation of new coils; installation 
checked; heating system fill; pressure test. Also sprinkler system refill and test; overall system test. 
Bob Ebersole will talk to Town Manager and ask about the repair/replacement of the burner/boiler and not 
spend more on band-aids for the heating system. 

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
February 19, 2015; Ritter Memorial Building, lower level conference area 
 
Page 2 
 
 Green Community Committee initiatives: Terry Hathaway, Harry Kubetz, Martha Moore & Robin Venezia  
o Robin: discussion was held with John Londa.  Three proposals: outside lights; safety issues (lighted book 
drops); three time-clocks.  Three outside pole lights will be on dusk to dawn + one in the center of the 
awning, the rest will go off at predetermined time. 
Two outside light clocks, one for the “all night”; one for the remaining lights which will turn off at 22:00. 
o Inside lights: John thought it was a great idea to pursue energy saving lights.  Martha: was in contact with the 
consultant (recommended by DPW) Matt; Question: is Guardian Energy approved by Unitil as a Green 
Vendor (National Grid has approved him)?  Sample lights WILL be installed; installation has been delayed by 
the flooding. 
o Building management system (Harry) – may not give us the savings that we expected.  The $12k is only for 
the HVAC, with external access (web control).  It will not control building lights.  
o Harry would like to see that the trustees understand the building and its systems better. 
 Director’s and Interim Director’s Transition 
o Martha will be coming back ~March (first week) Tuesdays and Thursdays ~20 hours per week 
o Teresa’s last week will be next week. Jeanne expressed the trustees’ appreciation for Teresa’s work. 
 
 Town Caucus: Open Trustee Positions 
o Three + Jeanne, Robin, Lars; Gare for another year.  Jeanne and Robin will not run again. Jeanne has 
served three terms as trustee. 
Lars+Gare are “on the list”; we need two more candidates…  Caucus is Monday March 16.  Town meeting 
May 2nd, then election in May 16th  Our current trustees last meeting will be in April 
 
 Other 
o Director’s evaluation – Jeanne asked for input on how we should proceed – will be put on next meeting’s 
agenda for discussion. 
o Bob E noted that Monday 23rd planning board meeting about the [Lunenburg] village 
o FinCom meeting for budget discussions on March 5th  
o Next trustee meeting March 19 in the LPL at 6:45 p.m. 
 
 Adjourn 
Jeanne asked for a motion to adjourn the meeting; so moved by Gare, second by Harry; voted all in favor @ 9:06 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for February 19, 2014 