===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es  
January 21, 2016; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz via remote v ideo link, Kiirja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Susan Viss er, Lars Widstrand, 
Martha Moore – Director, LPL; Bob Ebersole Board of  Selectmen representative 
Absent: Gare Thompson; Terri Burchfield, FinCom rep resentative 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:46 p.m.  by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
Harry Kubetz participated via video link due to bei ng geographically distant.  All votes taken at the meeting will be conducted with 
a roll call. 
•  Public Comment 
o No public comment 
Agenda Items 
•  Approval of Minutes 
o December 17, 2015 
o Harry moved to accept the minutes as presented, Don na second. 
Vote by roll call: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kii rja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Susan Visser, Lars Widst rand: 
all in favor. 
•  Director’s Report, as per handout 
o Last meeting’s remaining questions: 
/square4 Will be discussed as the meeting progresses, by ord inary agenda 
o Budget – Jan-16, YTD at around 50% which is on trac k, some slightly above other slightly below mostly due 
to quarterly bills. 
o Staff –  
/square4 Nicole attended the ALA conference in Boston, retur ned with a lot of new information and material 
for the staff. 
/square4 End of February, Martha is firming up the job descr iption for the replacement of Sandy.  There 
should be a requisition in place for the replacemen t soon.  The new librarian should be partially 
focused on “digital services”. 
o Community connections program is going really well.  
/square4 An art exhibit of local artists (to open on 2/13) a bout the life and legacy of Martin Luther King. 
o Programs – library programs running according to pu blished [web] calendar. 
o Educational out-reach update – planning to complete  needs assessment for two or more organizations eac h 
month starting in January and with a planned comple tion in March.  Based on assessment results, determ ine 
what services the Lunenburg Public Library could pr ovide. 
o Building & Maintenance. 
/square4 Building heat is now stable, and seem to be turning  on and off as desired.  The floor in the 
children’s activity room is now radiating (as inten ded) and is warm and comfortable. 
/square4 Harry reminded the meeting about the resonating sou nd in the duct system that is clearly heard in 
the Sudolnik conference room.  Needs investigation.  
/square4 Martha submitted to the Green Committee, the (final ?) proposal about the LED lights. 
Guardian Energy has provided a very detailed techni cal report, which has been submitted to the 
committee for perusal and consideration. 

===PAGE 2===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es 
January 21, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenbu rg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o Capital Planning 
/square4 Per separate handout, submitted by DPW to town for consideration. 
/square4 Carpeting replacement effort (when executed) in the  main room should be coordinated with 
painting.  If performed at the same time, it would save [effort and cost] of moving books. 
o FY16-17 Draft Budget—presented per handout 
/square4 Motion to approve the presentation of the budget to  Town Manager Kerry LaFleur. 
Susan made the motion, Kiirja second.  Vote by roll  call: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kiirja 
Paananen, Donna Saiia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand : all in favor. 
•  YA librarian report distributed and discussed. 
•  Children’s librarian report distributed and discuss ed. 
•  Library Trust Funds. 
o Doug and Barbara Fleming, Lunenburg historical rese archers, were asked by Martha to investigate each a nd 
every library [monetary] fund; what the original am ount was as well as the original intent.  The prese nted 
spreadsheet represents the research results. It is very detailed and informative, with source referenc es.  One 
suggestion from Martha is to spend 5% of the accumu lated interest  on the approved items (books, etc.) 
•  Child safety policy:  
o “No one, children or adults, is allowed to use skat eboards and other such equipment recreationally on Library 
Property.”  
o Motion to accept the quoted wording (above) into th e Child Safety Policy.  So moved by Lars, Donna sec ond. 
Vote by roll call: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kii rja Paananen, Donna Saiia, Susan Visser, Lars Widst rand: 
all in favor. 
•  Room use by non-profit entities.  Discussion: origi nal policy was more directed at the logistics for t he booking and use of the 
rooms, rather than defining non-profit vs. profit u se. 
o Donna volunteered to create a merged policy documen t on room use, with added text from larger librarie s’ 
policies (Boston public Library, etc.).  The docume nt will show red lining for clarity of the edits fo r the benefit 
of the Trustees review. 
o The new Room Use Policy will be added to April agen da for discussion. 
•  Martha’s performance evaluation 
o Dick will mail out the evaluation form with new dat e information etc. filled out for the Trustees to w ork with. 
o The evaluations to be complete by 3/17, turned in t o Dick by 3/17 latest.  Personnel subcommittee will  meet 
sometime after 3/17 (separate meeting), and have a summary ready to be presented at the April trustee 
meeting.  Final acceptance and signatures by truste es at May meeting; all to be in place by June meeti ng. 
•  Friends of LPL Update 
o Dick attended meeting at the early onset; most of t he meeting dealt with the upcoming Cultural Horizon  
program and “who” will be available for the various  segments of this umbrella program effort. 
o Ideas floated at the Friends meeting about a fall f undraiser [in addition] to the fall book and bake s ale. 
o “First People” - Cultural Horizon program to be hel d in early 2016. 
•  Town Caucus: Monday March 14 th  in Middle School, town elections on May 14 th  
o For the trustees, there will be two ea. three-year positions and one ea. two-year position available f or 
candidates. 
•  Lending of various non-traditional library items, s ewing machines, board games, craft making equipment , “rakes” (i.e. 
garden hand tools), book printing machines, 3-D sca nner, (examples picked from Sacramento, CA Library) . 
o For the trustees to ponder: how and what we could a nd should expand with, if this is a venue we want t o 
expand; possibly “a lot of traps” i.e. eventual lia bilities, who [is] to maintain the equipment, finan cial 
responsibility (if it breaks: repair / replacement) , funding overall… 
•  Board Comments 
o No Board Comments 
===PAGE 3===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minut es 
January 21, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenbu rg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
•  Agenda Items for upcoming meetings 
o Use of Trust Funds to be placed on the March agenda  according to Dick Mailloux 
o Room use – April agenda 
o Director’s evaluation – ongoing 
o Next meeting February 18 th  
•  Other 
o No “other” items. 
•  Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn, so moved by Lars, second by Donn a.  Vote by roll call: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz,  Kiirja 
Paananen, Donna Saiia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand : all in favor at 8:30 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for January 21, 2015 
Director’s report 
YA report 
Children’s librarian report 
BPL policy 