===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
April 21, 2016; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kiirja Paananen, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore – 
Director, LPL; Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative 
Absent: Donna Saiia, Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes of March 21, 2016 
o Harry moved to accept the minutes as presented, Susan seconded; voted: all in favor 
 Approval of Minutes of March 24, 2016 – Personnel Sub-committee Minutes 
o Gare moved to accept the minutes as presented, Harry seconded; voted: all in favor 
 Director’s Report, as per handout 
o FY 2016 Budget 
o FY 2017 Budget status 
o Staff 
o Programs 
o Educational outreach update 
o Building & Maintenance 
o Capital Planning 
o Young Adult Area Report – separate handout. 
 Harry asked about policy for if a checked out Wii / telescope, etc. was returned damaged: who is 
liable / responsible to pay for replacement / repair?  The lender or the library? 
The topic will be placed on the agenda for next meeting – policy to be created? 
o Children’s Area Report – separate handout. 
o Overage in heating and probably electricity due to the very mild winter. 
 Electrical and heating line items in the budget were discussed. 
 Possible use of overage could be to procure staff desks and chairs for teen room. 
 Update re: youth misbehavior 
 Friends of LPL Update 
o Passes (to museums, etc.) for the library have increased in cost, leading to that some have been eliminated. 
o Possibility of future brew house visit. 
o Discussion of the Cultural Horizon program that was held during late winter / early spring 
o Friends investigating possibility of having a wine/beer tasting [as a fund raiser] after the book and bake sale 
in October. 
o May 7th is date for annual town meeting; May 21st is date for town elections. 
  

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
April 21, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
 Director’s Evaluation 
o Summary / draft evaluation of Martha was distributed to the trustees for reading. 
o Gare made a motion to accept the evaluation as written, seconded by Harry, voted: all in favor. 
o Gare moved that the salary of the director for the fiscal year 2017 will become $ 67,725.00; seconded by 
Susan, voted: all in favor.  
 Board Comments 
o No board comments 
 Agenda Items for upcoming meetings  
o Room Use by for-profit entities (BPL Policies) – May agenda. 
o Policy for access and use of Library Trust Funds – September agenda. 
o Establish a Marketing/Technology sub-committee. 
o BOS Energy Policy – impact on library. 
o Library of Things, Gare suggested that we move this item to May meeting agenda 
 Other 
o None 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn so moved by Gare, seconded by Lars voted: all in favor at 7:27 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for April 21, 2016 
Director’s report 
Director’s evaluation 
Children’s librarian’s report 
YA librarian’s report 