===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
June 16, 2016; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
 
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kiirja Paananen, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand, Donna Saiia, Martha 
Moore – Director, LPL;  
Absent: Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative; Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by acting Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 
 Public Comment 
o Representative of Lunenburg Ledger, Anne Gilman is covering for the Ledger.  We may see her at future 
meetings as well.  
 Welcome Re-elected Members 
 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes of May 19, 2016 
o Gare moved to accept the minutes as presented, Susan seconded; voted: all in favor, Lars abstained was 
not present at the meeting 
 Board of Trustees Reorganization 
o Harry moved that we keep the organization as was last year, Gare second; voted all in favor  
o Chair - Dick 
o Vice-Chair - Susan 
o Secretary - Lars 
o Personnel subcommittee: Gare, Harry, Kiirja, Dick 
o Budget subcommittee: Harry, Gare, Donna 
o Endowment subcommittee: Susan and Dick 
 Director’s Report 
o FY 2016 Budget 
 Discussion about overage and how to spend it within the FY.  
Larger tickets: “spinner shelf” purchased for YA-room 
Millennium Alarms will install new camera and alarm system 
Six ea. 5’ folding tables purchased for the community room 
New tables for the Children’s room with adjustable height legs purchased 
Overdrive – bought access to separate account 
o Staff 
 Sherry CWMars resource sharing workshop; Marabeth training on cataloging for Evergreen 
New hire – discouraging news, 6 people interviewed, chose 1 person, had good references, but 
declined at second interview; got counteroffer (expanded duties/hours).  Martha will check with 
Wachusett, Simmons College. 
  

===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
June 16, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
Programs 
 Deb and Martha are scheduling programs for the summer, but keeping a lower profile since 
participation wanes during the summer 
o Building & Maintenance 
 No news on interior lighting project, have met with Jim, Kit and John Londa to decide what lights to 
get updated.   
o Staff Parking Issues? 
 School demolition, parking will diminish during the take-down of the high school, which means that 
TC Passios’ staff may look for parking at the library.  Signage will be posted reserving space for 
LPL staff; School Superintendent has been informed and will keep an eye on events for us from 
her side. 
o Capital Planning 
 Carpeting in main room, painting of interior 
o Young Adult Area Report – separate handout. 
o Children’s Area Report – separate handout to be shared later. 
o Possible program line in budget/sources of funding 
 Touched base with Karen about what will need to happen, in order to fit it into the budget (admin – 
adding lines in the actual budget categories) 
 Friends of LPL Update 
o Dick: Met first Monday of month, $$ to YA book collection has been donated 
White board and flip chart mobile unit can be rolled into any room 
Book and bake sale $3,295.72  
Annual meeting 7/16 at 10:00 meeting and pot-luck admission: some food to share 
Anne Gilman putting together a Pete Lincoln fund raising calendar for [Friends] next year 
 Director’s Comments re: evaluation 
 Director’s vacation 
o Board has to approve a one week carryover and send to Nancy. 
Gare moved that the director can carry over one week of vacation per.  Donna second; voted all in favor 
 LPL Trustee meeting dates for 2016/2017 
o Distributed calendar marked up with dates for next year. 
 Library of things 
o Borrowing policy – questions from last meeting, actually moved to September meeting. 
 Agenda items for upcoming meetings 
o Policy for access and use of Library Trust Funds – October 
o Establish a Marketing/Technology sub-committee 
o Room use by for-profit entities (BPL policies) – October 
o Possible program line in budget/sources of funding 
o Martha asked for input of what type of statistics the trustees would like to see presented during the meeting 
o Martha will discuss how books are selected for purchasing for YA, Children and Adult sections 
o Five year strategy for digital collection? 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
June 16, 2016; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn so moved by Gare, seconded by Harry voted: all in favor at 7:58 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for June 16, 2016 
Director’s report 
Children’s librarian’s report 
YA librarian’s report 