===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kate McCarron, Kiirja Paananen, Lars Widstrand, Donna Saila, Martha Moore - Director
LPL
Absent: Gare Thompson, Terri Burchfield - FinCom representative, Bob Ebersole - Board of Selectmen representative
The LPLBOT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux.
• Public Comment
No public - no comment.
Agenda Items
• Charter Revision Possibilities - Steve Archambault
• Discussions about sections 3-1 and 3-7.
• Charter Review Committee meets every 2*d and 4th Wednesday of each month in Ritter or Town Hall.
Charter gets reviewed every 10 years; bi-laws every 2 years.
• Revisions need to be approved in the May '18 Town Meeting.
• Suggestion that the LBLBoT should submit requested revisions to Board of Selectmen by January, 2018.
• Approval of minutes
• September 21, 2017 minutes.
• Motion to accept as presented by Kirja. Seconded by Lars. Unanimous vote in favor.
• Director's Report (Presented by Martha)
• FY 2018 Budget - Right on target (actually 2% below) for this time of year.
o Trust Funds - Still confusion about Bartholomew funds (which considerably underperform the Touchstone
funds.) The LPLBOTs still want to move the Bartholomew funds into management by Touchstone. Also still
confusion regarding how much of the Bartholomew funds can be spent, and for what purposes.
ARIS Report - noted that LPL coilects approximately $8,000 per year in fines.
• LED Saga Continues - Lars suggested that the LED long tube fixtures get cleaned.
Capital Planning - Nothing discussed other than what was included in Director's Report.
• LCC Grant Proposals for 2018 - Nothing discussed other than what was included in Director's Report.
Overview of Collection Development Process - What LPL buys based on the patrons that we have. Noted
that Patti handles Audio and Large Print; Nicole handles Young Adult; Debbie handles Kids; Martha handles
adult fiction and non-fiction and videos.
• Plans for Halloween - Nothing discussed other than what was included in Director's Report.
• Children's Area Report - Nothing discussed other than what was included in the Children's Area Report for
the month of September 2017.
• Committee Board Overview Form
• Some suggestions were made about various parts of the form. Dick will aggregate the suggestions and
provide the LPLBoT's with an updated response.
===PAGE 2===
• Room Use Policies
• Donna will send what she has to the LPLBoT prior to our November meeting (which will, exceptionaily, take
place on November 9, 2017 to accommodate Trustees' availability.)
• Plans for Director's Evaluation
• The process from 2017 seemed to work well so we will do a similar process in 2018. The process should
begin in February, 2018 and be completed by March, 2018.
• Agenda Items for upcoming meetings
Board Goals
• Room Use Policies
• Committee Board Overview Form
• Charter revisions
• Public Comments
• Itwas noted that the annual Book and Bake sale is scheduled to take place on Saturday, November 4, 2017.
• Adjourn
• Motion to adjourn by Lars. Seconded by Harry. Unanimous vote in favor. Meeting closed at 8:46 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Harry Kubetz
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library
Referenced documents:
LPLBoT Agenda for October 19, 2017
LPL Director's report of October 19, 2017
Trust Funds Reports from Town of Lunenburg, Touchstone Investments, and Bartholomew
Young Adult Services librarian's report October 2017
Children's Area Report For the Month of September, 2017
Town of Lunenburg Committee/Board Overview form
Sections 3-1 and 3-7 of the Lunenburg Charter which relate to the LPL
Page 2
===PAGE 3===
Thurs. Nov. 9, 2017 - Lunenburg Public Library - Sudolnik Conference Room
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Kate McCarron, Kiirja Paananen, Lars Widstrand, Gare Thompson, Donna Saila,
Martha Moore - Director LPL, Bob Ebersole - Board of Selectmen representative
Absent: Terri Burchfield - FinCom representative, Harry Kubetz
The LPLBoT meeting called to order at 6:45 by Dick Mailloux, Chairperson
Public Comment -none
Approval of minutes- postponed until next meeting on Dec, 21" due to absence of secretary, Harry
Kubetz; discussion of minutes will then include revisions regarding attachment of director's report and
use of ampersand
Director's Report - presented by Martha Moore, Director of LPL (see attached)
No revisions or comments on reported items other than below:
Trust Funds- Bob Ebersole's understanding is that trustees have authority over how
trust funds are spent, that they are not subject to Town Trust Commissioners.
Recommends confirming with town treasurer
Building and Maintenance- Suggested by Kate McCarron that before any major interior
painting begins in the library a committee be formed to decide if existing colors should
be changed and if so, what colors would be appropriate
Committee Board Overview Form - presented and read by Dick Mailloux. Motion to accept by Gare
Thompson, seconded by Kiirja Paananen
Charter review - unanimously agreed that given the discrepancies between what actually happens in
the running of the library (roles of trustees/director) and what's currently written in the charter, a
separate meeting to discuss and resolve those discrepancies is needed. A meeting dedicated to Charter
Review is scheduled for Dec. 7 at 6:45
Friends of LPL Update - book and bake sale held 11/4/17 a success; $2,150 profit
===PAGE 4===
goals to the next meeting and look online at various libraries by-laws while he investigates the reported
existence of LPL by-laws. Room Use Policies will be on the Dec. agenda and plans for the Director's
evaluation will begin in Feb.
Public Comment - none
Adjourn - Motion to adjourn by Gare Thompson, seconded by Kiirja Paananen. Meeting adjourned at
7:48 PM.
Respectfully submitted,
Kate McCarron, trustee,
in the absence of Harry Kubetz, Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library
Referenced documents:
LPLBoT Agenda for November 9, 2017
Director's report of November 9, 2017
Young Adult Services librarian's report of November, 2017
Page 2
===PAGE 5===
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kate McCarron, Kirja Paananen, Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore - Director LPL, Terri
Burchfield - FinCom representative,
Absent: Gare Thompson, Donna Saila, Bob Ebersole - Board of Selectmen representative
The LPLBoT special meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux.
• Public Comment
No public - no comment.
Agenda Items
Discussion of possible revisions to the Town Charter as it applies to the management and operation of the Lunenburg
Public Library
• Discussions about sections 3-1 & 3-7.
• Section 3-1 is fine and can stay as it is.
Section 3-7 is antiquated; the relationship between the Board, Director, and staff is wrong.
• Corrections to section 3-7 were suggested.
• A motion was made by Harry to approve, conceptually, the revisions to section 3-7 as agreed upon by the
Board. Seconded by Kate. Unanimous vote in favor.
• Dick agreed to assemble and distribute to the Board a revised section 3-7 incorporating all changes agreed
upon by the Board.
• Motion to adjourn by Lars. Seconded by Kate. Unanimous vote in favor. Meeting closed at 7:35 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Harry Kubetz
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library
Referenced documents:
LPLBoT Special Meeting Agenda for December 7, 2017
Sections 3-1 & 3-7 of the Lunenburg Charter which relate to the LPL
