===PAGE 1===
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
January 26, 2017; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library  
  
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Donna Saiia, Susan Visser, Lars Widstrand 
Martha Moore – Director, LPL; Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative 
Absent: Kiirja Paananen, Gare Thompson; Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative 
 
 
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:46 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. 
 
 Public Comment 
o No public comment 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes of December 15, 2016 
o Susan moved to accept the minutes as amended, Dick seconded; Dick Mailloux, Donna Saiia, Susan 
Visser, Lars Widstrand voted “aye”; Harry abstained (not present at December meeting) 
 Director’s Report  
o FY 2017 Budget ~ 55% spent @ 58% into fiscal year, but large bills are coming up. 
o Budget Planning for FY ‘18 
 Library Budget was discussed during a “walk through” of the Director’s budget spread sheet. 
 Town intends to spend 16% of total library budget (16% equates to $59,950.00) on library 
materials.  Martha explained abbreviation used, TAMI: Total Appropriated Municipal Income 
 Motion to accept library FY-18 budget as presented, by Lars, Harry seconded, voted all “aye”. 
 The Lunenburg Public Library is state certified! 
 Volunteer(s) starting to help out with various non-standard duties in the library, as part of elderly-
fixed-income-real estate tax work-off.  Discussion about whether the volunteers should be “used” to 
perform duties that we actually pay for, but are not satisfied with (example mentioned: cleaning) 
o Staff update 
o Technology update 
o Programs update 
o Building & Maintenance update 
o LED Migration Update 
 LED Migration is moving along, should be complete in 2 weeks.  We have had some issues with 
the lights being too strong (high intensity), and too “bright” (bright in the sense: too “cold” in color 
temperature).  Martha has requested that the installers replace the existing ones that are too bright 
/ cold with a more natural, softer light. 
 Asking the staff, they feel in general that the light is harsh (cold), or “too bright” (still talking about 
color temperature) 

===PAGE 2===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
January 26, 2017; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
  
Lars: I have added an approximate light color chart to the minutes to illustrate color temperature of 
light sources. 
o Harry asked a question about the air handler and rumble in air; stating it is due to burner flame and the 
exhaust.  Did DPW ever come back and adjust the exhaust to alleviate the noise?  Harry accepted to contact 
DPW and find out status and eventual fix to the problem. 
o Young Adult Area Report 
o Children’s Area Report 
 
 Policy for access and use of Library Trust Funds 
o Discussed the current investments 
 Need more clarification, especially on the Touchstone fund account – not clear on spending rules 
attached, etc. 
o Motion to accept policy as amended made by Harry, Donna seconded, all voted “aye”. 
 Policy on Library Weather Closing 
o Bob suggested that we verify with Town Manager what policy they use if the Town Hall is closed for 
emergency snow situation.  Is the staff paid even though not at work? 
o Harry suggest that the policy should be that if the library is closed, the staff should be compensated; if the 
library is open and staff chose not to come in, they should not be compensated. 
o Dick agrees with the suggestion that Martha check with Town Hall, but the library closings are separate from 
how Town Hall works – we work according to DPW and school system. 
Vote on Policy is tabled until February meeting. 
 Policy for Library Cards for Out of State Residents 
o Decided / accepted at December meeting 
 Child Safe Policy 
o Motion to accept policy as amended made by Lars, Harry seconded, all voted “aye”. 
 
 Room Use Policy 
o Discussion of material from Boston library, researched and brought in by Donna. 
o Long discussion about the legality of holding private meeting in a public place. 
o Is it acceptable to sell / promote material if it is a library sponsored event 
o Donna will condense and rewrite the Room Use Policy to suit our library and submit the text to Town Counsel 
for “legalese” check. 
 Friends of LPL Update  
o No update – last meeting did not have a quorum; meeting cancelled… 
 Agenda Items for upcoming meetings discussed 
 
  

===PAGE 3===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
January 26, 2017; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
 Director’s Evaluation—Starts Feb. 1 
o Will be e-mailed to the Trustees to work with. 
 
 Board Comments 
o New town email system in place, better user-interface for the webmail system. 
o Harry had a question: who [is responsible for and] programs the building management system?  The answer 
from Martha is DPW…  Harry wanted to know “why the heat is on after library open-hours”?  Some time is 
needed before opening to allow building temperature to stabilize; allow people to leave before temperature 
drops and lights go out. 
 
 Final comment from Selectman Bob –the Annual Town Caucus is March 17; Trustees: who is up for election / re-
election, new candidates? 
 Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn by Lars, seconded by Susan, all voted “aye”; meeting closed at 9.00 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lars Widstrand 
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Referenced documents: 
LPLBoT Agenda for January 26, 2017 
Director’s report 
Children’s librarian’s report 
YA librarian’s report 