===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
RECEIVED & FLED
OCT 3 : 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Lunenburg Public Library
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes
September 21, 2017; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Kate McCarron, Kiirja Paananen, Lars Widstrand, Gare Thompson
Absent: Donna Saiia, Martha Moore - Director LPL, Terri Burchfield - FinCom representative, Bob Ebersole - Board of
Selectmen representative
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux.
• Public Comment
No public - no comment
Nomination and Election of Board Secretary Gare nominated Harry Kubetz with Kate MoCarron as backup.
Seconded by Lars. Unanimous vote in favor.
Agenda Items
• Approval of minutes
• June 22, 2017 minutes
• Slight grammatical amendment on sentence about MUNIS suggested by Kiirja and Gare. Motion to accept
as amended by Gare, Seconded by Kirja. Unanimous vote in favor.
• Director's Report (Presented by Dick in lieu of Martha)
FY 2017 Budget - Nothing discussed other than what was included in Director's Report
• FY 2018 Budget - Not included in Director's Report & nothing discussed.
Trust Funds - Not part of Director's Report & Nothing discussed.
Staff - Nothing discussed other than what was included in Director's Report.
Programs - The Director's Report discussed many different ongoing programs. In addition, there was a
discussion about Summer '17's Project Bread program which Dick reported as a great success that was well-
utilized and well-executed with minimal problems. Harry asked about the possibility that this (or an
equivalent) program continues on Saturdays beyond the summer and Dick advised that no such equivalent
orogram like Project Bread' exists after the end of Summer.
Building and Maintenance - The Director's Report discussed many different issues. In addition, it was
agreed that Harry would liaise with Martha and that he would reach out to DPW to inquire why the furnace in
the library was cycling on and off so often during the evening's LPLBoT's meeting (at least 5 times in 45
minutes) on a warm evening? It should not be due to hot water demand. Are we simultaneously cooling and
heating the Library? It was also mentioned that some areas of the Library during some events were
particularly hot.
• LED Saga Continues - Nothing discussed other than what was included in Director's Report.
• Capital Planning - Not included in Director's Report & nothing discussed.
Young Adult Area Report - The report discussed many different issues. A discussion ensued about how
well-attended many of the programs are, and the possibility that at some time in the future the space allotted
to young adults was somehow expanded
• Children's Area Report - No report was presented.
===PAGE 2===
• Friends of LPL Update
• Dick mentioned that he, personally, will not be able to attend the Friend's meeting on Monday, Oct. 2, and
suggested that, perhaps, another LPLBoT member could attend in his stead.
• It was discussed that the Friends are contemplating raising dues
Dick suggested that all LPLBoT members regularly take a look at the LPL home page to see how very well it
is being maintained and to see what programs, news, and events are presented. The site and the people that
maintain it were commended! It was also discussed that there is an on-line survey on the site that PLBOT
members should be aware of and perhaps, themselves, take.
• Thank You notes from Trustees
• Everyone agreed that written Thank You' notes are well-appreciated and show that the LPLBoT truly cares.
Kate volunteered to be the LPLBoT member that composes and writes the notes, and everyone agreed that
she should do it.
Pass out new calendar with correction for June Friday mistake
New, revised calendar distributed.
• Agenda Items for upcoming meetings
• Room use policy - It was suggested that perhaps Donna could distribute her notes electronically in advance
of the next LPLBoT meeting
• Possible program line in budget/sources of funding - Not discussed
• Board Comments
• Gare suggested that (computer) 'Coding' could or should be considered as an ongoing Young Adult program.
The general LPLBoT consensus was that this was an excellent idea.
Kate brought up the (above referenced) possibility that the Teen Room somehow get expanded space in the
future as the attendance by Young Adults seems to be increasing (a good thing!)
Dick mentioned Elaine Peterson (Assistant to Lunenburg's Town Manager, Heather Lemieux) had sent out
an email on Thursday, September 21, 17 requesting that a worksheet sent as an attachment to her email be
completed prior to the Boards and Committee Goals workshop scheduled for Tuesday, October 10th at 7:00
p.m. In addition to other information, this worksheet requests Boards' achievements in '17 and goal for '18.
Dick pointed out that the we were not allowed to discuss this at this evening's LPLBoT meeting because it
was not part of our agenda (our agenda was submitted prior to the receipt of Elaine's email) but that he
would report that the LPLBoT's would continue to guide the library's staff and seek to continue and expand
the Library's 'Community Footprint and involvement.
• Adjourn
Motion to adjourn by Gare. Seconded by Harry. Unanimous vote in favor. Meeting closed at 7:34 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Harry Kubetz
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library
Referenced documents:
LPLBoT Agenda for September 21, 2017
Director's report of September 21, 2017
Young Adult Services librarian's report of September 21, 2017
(amended) LPL Board of Trustees Meeting Calendar (corrected June 2018 date) for 2017-2018
Page 2
