===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
195
Lunenburg Public Library
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes
March 16, 2017; Sudolnik meeting room, Lunenburg Public Library
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz - remote by Face Time!, Kirja Paananen, Donna Salia, Gare Thompson, Susan Visser,
Lars Widstrand, Martha Moore - Director, LPL
Absent: Terri Burchfield - FinCom representative; Bob Ebersole - Board of Selectmen representative
The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:47 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux.
It is noted that Harry is participating "remote"; therefore voting will be conducted by roll-call.
•
Public Comment
No public, no comment...
• Town Manager Introduction
The Town Manager could not come to this meeting. It was noted by Dick and Martha that the Town Manager
has visited the library to meet the staff and see the facilities. We will seek another opportunity for her to
come and meet the Trustees.
• Agenda Items:
• Approva: of Minutes
February 16, 2017
Motion to approve minutes as amended by Gare, seconded by Donna.
Gare, Lars, Kirja, Donna, Harry, Susan, and Dick voted aye by roll-call.
• Director's Report
Notice: Martha will be on vacation last week of March
• FY2017 Budget
Budget trends: we are doing fine with the numbers, looking at end-of year situation.
• FY2018 Budget / Finance Committee meeting update
Martha presented the budget to the FinCom during their meeting. It was well received.
• Proposed use of Available Trust Funds
Discussion regarding the spending of Touchstone gains on the funds.
Dick states that we need to know who the commissioners are for the [town] Trust Funds.
Martha will check with Town Hall staff.
Staff
•
Upcoming movie night on 3/24: Denzel Washington "Fences", Appetizers will be served visitors
are encouraged to bring some!).
PJ collection was great success: 60+ pairs of pajamas were donated.
Summer reading plans for both Children's and Teens' section just about finalized by Debbie and
Nicole.
1 Face Time is a proprietary videotelephony product developed by Apple Inc. (source: WIKIPEDIA)
2 A working-class African-American father tries to raise his family in the 1950s, while coming to terms with the events of his life.
(source: MDb.com)
===PAGE 2===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes
March 16, 2017; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library
Continuous book sale going really well. The area in the rear of the main hall is completely set up
by Pat and Martha. Martha explained that books donated during the year can be sold from these
shelves.
Programs
• A multitude of programs in planning as well as currently running were described by Martha. This is
a testimony to the fact that the library has a lot to offer our town and is truly the cultural hub of
Lunenburg.
Technology
Problems with the public computers were described. Nicole and Martha are investigating and will
contact FireFly Computing for corrective action.
Comcast internet access stability and Wi-Fi access has been subpar. Martha is investigating other
options, since Comcast's response to requests for corrective actions has matched the level of
internet stability and Wi-Fi access.
Building and Maintenance
A new volunteer has started to help out in the library, which is greatly appreciated
• LED Migration Update
• DMH and John Londa regard the project as "completed".
Martha has requested that the owner of DMH will send her:
Scope of work/ contract with DMH, detailing the project.
A detailed report of what has been installed and where.
A copy of the invoice for the library project.
• It is very noticeable how much work has been left for the DPW to finish. Martha and the
trustees have a question what the scope of work is / was for DMH, compared to what
they have done, and how much was "passed on" to DPW.
• Martha will also ask the Green Committee for how much money in the LED grant was
ear-marked for the library LED upgrade, vs. how much was spent.
• Further, Martha will check with town accountant to see if the invoice from DMH has been
paid, and request a hold on payment until all outstanding issues are resolved.
Unitil will visit and inspect one particular bulb that was paid by an energy grant from
them.
• When all the paperwork and information (listed above) has been collected, Martha will
contact Guardian to review the main hall up-lights and investigate if they have a solution;
currently, the main hall is very dimly lit.
Library Walk-through re: LED Migration
•
The trustees walked through the library and took a dim view of the main hall up-lights.
The lights are really insufficient in several areas. it is not only an
inconvenience to patrons, but could also pose a safety hazard. The shelves
immediately outside the director's office are very poorly lit, unless the director's
office ceiling lights are on (!).
• The "corn bulbs" or other options for the up-lights mentioned by John Londa in
last month's LED project update (see minutes of 2/16/17) have not been tested
in the main hall fixtures.
•
It was also noted that light fixtures that "look the same" i.e. recessed circular shaped
lights have LED light sources in some areas (e.g. "public cafeteria area") and fluorescent
tubes in other (children's activity room, Sudolnik meeting room), Clarification is needed!
3 "http://fireflycomputers.com/session-based-virtualization/"
Page 2
===PAGE 3===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes
March 16, 2017; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library
The quiet study rooms were deemed very bright; luckily dimmers had been instailed for a
user to be able to work under more reasonable light levels.
The director's office, even though the "correct" troffers have now been installed,
continues to be too bright (light level) and harsh (color temperature too cold / blue). It
should be noted that there is troffers available with warmer color temperature than what
was installed.
•
The walk-though was ended, and regular meeting resumed.
A discussion ensued regarding the proposed (by John Londa) reduction in the budget line concerning
electricity.
• Gare moved that we do not change our budget line for electricity per John Londa's numbers at this
time, Kirja seconded.
Gare, Lars, Kiirja, Donna, Harry, Susan, and Dick voted aye by roll-call.
• Room Use Policy
Moved to April meeting
• Approval of Warrant Article for upcoming Town Meeting: Library Revolving Fund
•
Susan made motion to accept the article, Gare seconded.
Gare, Lars, Kirja, Donna, Susan, and Dick voted aye by roll-call. Harry abstained since did not
have a copy of the warrant article available to view.
• Director's Evaluation - Due
• All received by Dick from the trustees.
• Friends of LPL Update
The latest meeting did not have a quorum; meeting was not held.
• Caucus - Potential Candidate for trustee
• Kate McCarron, former teen librarian.
• Harry Kubetz, current trustee. Harry needs to sign a form in the town clerk's office.
• Set date and time for personnel sub-committee meeting for the director evaluation
• Thursday 3/30 @ 6:30 p.m. Participants: Dick, Kiirja, Gare, Harry.
• Board Comments
• Dick - about MailChimp, a library in New York used Constant Contact for informational mailings;
used for broadcasting of closings, etc.
Martha stated that it is already in the Nicole's plan for the use of MailChimp.
• Lunenburg on-line email, some issues lingering. Specifically, some trustees have had issued with
log-ins/ passwords. Town I.T. staff has been helping.
4 «http://www.cooperindustries.com/", a subsidiary of EATON, manufacture troffers of lower wattage and warmer color
temperature (they are also dimmable)
Page 3
===PAGE 4===
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeling minutes
March 16, 2017; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library
Agenda Items for Upcoming Meetings
Continue tracking of LED upgrade project.
Resulting draft from personnel sub-committee meeting for dir eval will be brought for discussion.
Room use policy...
• Other
• None.
• Adjourn
Moves to adjourn @ 8:01, seconded by Susan.
Gare, Lars, Kirja, Donna, Harry, Susan, and Dick voted aye by roll-call.
RECEIVED & FILED
APR 2 G 2017
LUNENBURG TOWN
CLERK OFFICE
Respectfully submitted,
Lars Widstrand
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library
Referenced documents:
LPLBoT Agenda for March 16, 2017-
Director's report
Children's librarian's report
YA librarian's report
Page 4
