===PAGE 1===
 Lunenburg Public Library Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  October 18, 2018 Sudolnik Meeting Room, Lunenburg Public Library    Attending: Dick Mailloux, Maia Wentrup, Kate McCarron, Martha Moore – Director LPL, Donna Saiia, Bob Conroy,  Michelle Walton – FinCom representative, Harry Kubetz  Absent:  Lars Widstrand, Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative   The LPLBT meeting was called to order at 6:46 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux.   Public Comment   • There was no Public Comment   Agenda Items  • Potential Bank Program to Reward Reading – Joani Hannu & Brendan Gallagher, Main Street Bank  Joani Hannu & Brendan Gallagher from Main Street Bank presented to the LPLBoT their concept for a Reading Program that, in partnership with LPL, Main Street Bank would like to sponsor.   The (to be refined) concept is that a person up to the age of 18 will be rewarded for reading 10 books (with an eye towards Financial Literacy when possible) with a $10 deposit into their Main Street Bank account.  In addition to that $10, an additional $10 will be donated by Main Street Bank to the LPL (or, more specifically, Friends of LPL.)   Joani and Brendan stressed that this was their rough draft, and that they were anxious to team with Martha and her staff to refine & optimize the program.   There was unanimous support of this potential program from all of the Trustees as well as Martha.   It was suggested that the Lunenburg Schools might also be involved and participate in the future.  Joani will contact Martha on Tuesday, Oct 23 to provide more information.  Harry made a motion that the Trustees support this program and that it should be implemented as it seems like a very clear win-win-win-win for the LPL, Main Street Bank, the schools, and, more importantly, for the community and the Library’s young patrons.   The motion was seconded by Maia.   The motion was unanimously approved.  • Approval of Minutes o The approval of the September 20, 2018 minutes was deferred to the LPLBoT meeting on November 15, 2018 to allow Maia the opportunity to make some sections more concise.  Harry made the motion to defer to the approval of the minutes until the November 15 meeting.  The motion was seconded by Kate.  The motion was unanimously approved.   • Director’s Report (Presented by Martha)  o FY 2019 Budget - We are 31% spent and we are 29% into the fiscal year, so we on-target. • A Warrant Article for the Special Town Meeting to be held on Tuesday, November 13, 2018 was approved by the LOLBoT as follows: 

===PAGE 2===
 Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes October 18, 2018; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
Page 2  
 o To see if the Town will vote to raise and appropriate and/or transfer from available funds a sum or sums of money as may be necessary to defray the expenses of covering additional employee hours to provide classroom visits to the Library for Turkey Hill Elementary School.   The sum of $7,200 to be added to the Library’s FY2019 total salary line.  o Trust Funds – It was suggested by Martha that Trust Funds be used to fund $1500 of the $3500 spent on a new Projector.  The LPLBoT suggested that the entire cost of the projector come from Trust Funds.   Harry made a motion that $3,500 of trust funds be used to pay for the projector.   Donna seconded the motion.   The motion was unanimously approved.   o ARIS Report – not discussed  o Staff  • Nicole attended the annual Teen Summit and is actively involved with the renovation of the Teen Room. • Debbie & Nicole have begun their fall programs  • Muri has become the LPL’s representative for the Community Read’s which is coordinated by Fitchburg State.  His schedule permitting, he is also LPL’s representative at CWMARS meetings.  o Programs § The LPL is conducting a Flu Clinic  o Building & Maintenance  § All of the “uplights” have been converted to 100 watt LED bulbs vs. the 25 watt that had been previously installed.  It is a significant improvement  o Capital Planning § Kit is thinking of having a project manager work on each of Lunenburg’s Town departments’ planning and estimates.   Getting good estimates is very challenging for each individual department to do.  The goal is to have a more professional and efficient Capital Plan.  o LCC Grant Proposals for 2019 – not discussed  o Plans for Halloween – not discussed  o HomeWork Power Hour – not discussed  o THES Visits  § Dick explained to the LPLBoT that after our September 20, 2018 meeting ‘a meeting of the minds’ between Dick, Martha, and Harry and subsequently Harry acting as a communication facilitator between the LPL and Turkey Hill Elementary School enabled us to move forward with 5th grade classroom visits to the LPL.   This is being done on a trial basis with a review of the program planned for around Thanksgiving.    As of October 18, 2018, 3 classroom visits had taken place.  A lot of planning has taken place and continues to take place to make the program successful.   A lot of this planning involves proper staffing from both THES and the LPL, and we thank Linda Shea and Karen Godin for volunteering their time to help. § Current consensus from Martha is ‘so far so good.’   It is a lot of work from the entire LPL staff but it appears to be working.  When asked if the 5th Graders were having a good time during the visits Martha said, without hesitation, ‘Yes.”   §  o Young Adult Report – Not provided.   Nicole had a loss in the family (the LPLBoT offered their condolences) which impacted her ability to produce her report.    It will be presented at our November meeting.   
===PAGE 3===
 Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes October 18, 2018; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
Page 3  
 o Children’s Area Report – see referenced.   • Friends of LPL Update – The Book & Bake sale generated approximately $800 from baked goods and $2200 from book sales.   It was (again) mentioned that the LPL is incredibly fortunate to have ‘Friends’ and that they support the LPL with contributions of $40,000 - $50,000 each year!   • Room Use Policy Update o The policy has been completed.   • Plans for Director’s Evaluation o This will begin in February 2019.  • Agenda Items for upcoming meetings o Budget FY’20 o LPL Staff Restructure – How many staff members does the LPL really need?  Board Comments   • Special Town Meeting on Tuesday, November 13, 2018 @ 7p.m.   Motion to adjourn by Harry. Motion seconded by Kate. Motion unanimously approved.  Meeting closed at 8:31 p.m.   Respectfully submitted, Harry Kubetz Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library  Referenced documents: LPLBOT Meeting Agenda for October 18, 2018 LPLBoT Draft Minutes for September 20, 2018 Directors Report of October 17, 2018 THES School Visits  Children’s Area Report for the month of September 2018 LPL Monthly Calendar – All Departments – November 2018 Reading Program Draft from Main Street Bank 