===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Kate McCarron, Donna Salia, Kiirja Paananen, (Harry Kubetz remotely via FaceTime), Martha Moore -
Director LPL
Absent: Gare Thompson, Lars Widstrand, Bob Ebersole - Board of Selectmen representative, Terri Burchfield - FinCom
representative,
The LPLBT meeting was calied to order at 6:46 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux.
• Public Comment- no comment.
Agenda Items
• Approval of January 18, 2018 minutes - Motion to accept by Donna. Seconded by Kiirja. Approved of by show of
hands. Unanimously approved.
Director's Report (Presented by Martha and referenced below)
• FY 2018 Budget - We are presently 7% under budget but Martha has a couple of large invoices that must be
paid, so we are more-or-less on-budget.
• Budget Planning for FY 2019 - Martha will present our budget which will be presented to the Financial
Committee meeting on Thursday, February 22.
Trust Fund Update - The official request for Bartholomew funds be transferred to Touchstone was submitted
last month. Rich Letarte will review all accounts and the process when he returns from Florida in April.
Staff - Our request for a new Aduit Services librarian to replace Patti has been posted externally. All else
good.
Technology - No update.
Programs- LPL will not be doing the Artisan's Fair this July as the LCC is doing something identical in June.
Building & Maintenance - Lighting timing sensors are not working, but are expected to be fixed during the
week of February 19.
Capital Planning Update - none
• Young Adult Report- see referenced
• Children's Area Report - see referenced
===PAGE 2===
meeting did not take place.
• Agenda Items for upcoming meetings
• Director's Evaluation - due from all Trustees by our March 15 meeting
• LPLBOT By-laws
Voting on revolving funds next month
•
Board Comments - Town Caucus will be on Monday March 12 at 7pm. at Turkey Hill Elementary School. We have
three Trustee positions to fill. Harry has one candidate in mind that he has already introduced to Dick.
Public Comment - none
Motion to adjourn by Harry. Seconded by Kate. Unanimous vote in favor. Meeting closed at 7:25 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Harry Kubetz
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library
Referenced documents:
LPLBOT Meeting Agenda for February 15, 2018
LPL Director's Report for February 15, 2018
Annual Report of the Lunenburg Public Library 2017-2018
Children's Area Report for the month of January, 2018
Young Adult Services Report January, 2018
LPLBOT Draft Minutes for January, 18, 2018
Page 2
