===PAGE 1===
Lunenburg Public Library Draft Minutes 9/20/18  Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes September 20, 2018  Sudolnik Meeting Room, Lunenburg Public Library    Attending: Donna Saiia, Maia Wentrup, Kate McCarron, Lars Widstrand, Bob Conroy, Harry Kubetz , Martha Moore – Director LPL  Absent:  Dick Mailloux,-Chair of LPLBoT, Terri Burchfield – FinCom representative, Bob Ebersole – Board of Selectmen representative   • The LPLBoT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Vice Chairperson, Harry Kubetz  • Public Comment –   In attendance for the public comment portion of the meeting:  Heidi Champagne (Principal, THES)  Annica Scott (Dean of Students, LMHS)  Rhonda Connery (5th Grade teacher @ THES)  Julianna Hanscom (Director of Special Services)  These four attendees were at our meeting to discuss the matter of coordinating 5th grade student visits to LPL.  Principal Champagne began with the history of the communication about the idea and continued on to express concern at some miscommunication regarding when and how these visits could take place.  The attendees spoke about the previous years when students had visited LPL and what the expectations for this program had been.  A desire for the schools and library to work in collaboration was communicated, and the fervent hopes that this could be worked out was relayed by the speakers.   Due to the nature of their visit during public comment (rather than as a scheduled agenda item) Trustees were able to ask questions for clarification, but not to discuss the matter directly.  Harry Kubetz, acting as the Chair for that meeting, assured the guests that the matter would be treated with utmost importance and Dick Mailloux, Chair, would be communicating with them upon his return from vacation.   After the attendees departed, Martha Moore asked if she could clarify the events that had been discussed from her perspective.  She explained how the communication had happened over the summer and during the weeks leading up to the start of school.  She expressed that much of the concern on the part of LPL had to do with staffing and the impact of the visits on other LPL patrons.   She communicated that her goal is certainly to encourage collaboration and patronage by our youngest Town citizens, but that she wants to find a way to do so that will not tax and already very busy LPL staff.   
===PAGE 2===
 • Approval of June 21, 2018 minutes: Donna Saiia made a motion to approve of the minutes as written, seconded by Lars. Board unanimously approved.  • Director’s Report: see attached for full report. Additional comments below. Martha stated that everything is on target. She explained that the $2,446 discrepancy missing from the salary budget represents a portion of the salary agreed upon for the new Assistant Library Director and would be justified from the database budget line. This occurred because a library director, upon approval by the trustees, is entitled to negotiate salaries (‘vs’ adhering to the established steps for pay grades used for all town employees other than school and library employees) and due to having hired at the end of the fiscal year, a “placeholder” salary had been entered into the salary line rather than the actual negotiated salary. There will be no discrepancy in 2019.  • Young Adult Area Report – see attached  • Children’s Area Report –see attached  • Room Use Policy Update – completed policy is awaiting final acceptance by town counsel. Kate handed out copies to new members.  • Parking Policy Update – “Staff Only” areas have been marked  • Safety Policy Update – nothing submitted yet; Martha is working on ‘Emergency Planning’.  • LED Update – see attached  • Friends of LPL Update – Martha attended the meeting and said discussion was mostly about the upcoming Book & Bake sale to be held October 6th  • Agenda Items for upcoming meetings  § Resolving the issue of 5th grade class visits § LED update § Financial Report required by state   • Adjourn - Lars made a motion to adjourn at 8:31p.m., seconded by Kate.  Unanimously approved.  •   Respectfully submitted,   Kate McCarron (for Harry Kubetz Secretary, who was acting as Chair) Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library  Referenced documents:  
===PAGE 3===
LPLBOT Meeting Minutes for June 21, 2018  Directors Report  Children’s Area Report  Young Adult Services Report  LED Update 