===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Kate McCarron, Kiirja Paananen, Gare Thompson, Lars Widstrand, Donna Saila, (Harry Kubetz
remotely via FaceTime) Martha Moore - Director LPL
Absent: Bob Ebersole - Board of Selectmen representative, Terri Burchfield - FinCom representative,
The LPLBT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux.
• Public Comment - no comment.
Agenda Items
• Approval of December 21, 2017 minutes - Motion to accept by Gare. Seconded by Kiirja. Approved of by show of
hands, Gare and Donna abstaining having been absent on Dec. 21
• Director's Report (Presented by Martha - see attached file)
FY 2018 Budget - All computer files for the entire staff temporarily lost due to IT problems, causing
enormous anxiety and delays! Town IT employees unable to restore files: contacted backup software
company, all files restored and Martha able to finish the report, due for submission to the Town Manager on
Wednesday, January 24 for the annual town report
• FY 2019 Budget - being completed for approval by trustees on February 15, due for presentation to the Town
Manager on February 22. Anticipating budget increase of approximately $31,000 to hire a new Assistant
Manager, (Pat Dupont retiring) significant cost increases for programming, (traditionally funded by the
Friends of LPL) and increased materials funding required by the state. Potential reduction in electricity and
heating costs
Trust Fund Update - Dick submitted letter to Myleen requesting Bartholomew funds be transferred to
Touchstone. Rich Letarte will review all accounts and the process when he returns from Florida. Dick
suggested that he and Martha might benefit from meeting directly with Karen Brochu to discuss details.
• Staff - all good! Heather attended MLS workshop and will share her knowledge with staff
• Technology - ongoing issues with internet speed and IT performance. Martha continues to work with town IT
personnel to better understand how they operate and inform them on differences between library systems
and town systems
• Programs - Reiki sessions very well received. Planning for 2018-2019 programs continues
• Building & Maintenance - Simplex replaced failing batteries in fire panel alarm system, expected to last for 2
years
===PAGE 2===
• Room Use Policy-finished draft by Donna being sent electronically to trustees for review and input, to be finalized and
approved of during next meeting
• Friends of LPL Update - Dick can't attend February Friends meeting, Harry volunteered to attend.
Friends continue to explore fundraising options - a Cookie Walk, Open Mike Night, Moth Radio Hour - and
moving the book and bake sale permanently to November
• March Caucus- 3 trustee seats open. Gare and Kirja will not be seeking re-election
• Agenda Items for upcoming meetings
Board Goals - to be discussed during February 15 meeting
• LPLBOT By-laws
Director's Evaluation - Dick will electronically send evaluation instrument to staff by February 1
Personnel sub-committee meeting in March
• Board discussion and salary recommendation during April meeting
• Approval of contract and salary during May meeting
• Board Comments - Lars inquired about appropriate thank you note for both Kit and Jim; already sent
• Public Comment - none
Motion to adjourn by Gare. Seconded by Lars. Unanimous vote in favor. Meeting closed at 7:42 p.m.
Respectfully submitted,
Kate McCarron on behalf of Harry Kubetz
Secretary, Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library
Referenced documents:
LPLBOT Meeting Agenda for January 18, 2018
LPL Director's Budget Detail Spreadsheet January 2018
Children's Area Report for the month of December, 2017
Young Adult Services Report December, 2017
Trust Fund Letter sent to Myleen Mallari Treasurer/Collector
LPLBOT Draft Minutes for December 21, 2017
Page 2
