===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  
May 23, 2019 Sudolnik Meeting Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
  
Attending: Dick Mailloux, Maia Wentrup, Kate McCarron, Donna Saiia, Muir Haman – Director LPL, Bob 
Conroy, Lars Widstrand, Harry Kubetz. 
 
The LPLBT meeting was called to order at 6:45 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux.  
Public Comment  
 There was no Public Comment 
Agenda Items 
 Approval of Minutes 
o The minutes for April 18, 2019 were reviewed. Some amendments were suggested. Motion to approve 
minutes as amended was unanimously approved by roll call. 
 
 BOT Reorganization/Election of Officers 
o Chair: Harry Kubetz was nominated for chair by Kate McCarron. Dick Mailloux was nominated for chair by 
Lars Widstrand. Harry Kubetz was elected chair by a roll call vote.  
o Voting for Dick were Lars, Donna, and Dick. 
o Voting for Harry were Maia, Kate, Bob, and Harry. 
 
o Vice-Chair: Kate McCarron was nominated for vice chair by Harry and was unanimously approved.  
 
o Secretary: Bob Conroy was nominated for secretary by Kate and was unanimously approved. Donna Saiia 
volunteered as backup for the secretary. 
 
o Subcommittees: After some discussion on whether the Library Director should be a member of some 
commitees and how many members each committee should contain, the following were appointed:  
 The Policy subcommittee was re-established with Donna, Dick, Maia, Bob and Kate as members. 
 The Personnel subcommittee: Donna, Kate and Harry.  
 Budget subcommittee: Dick and Donna. 
 Friend’s Endowment: Harry, Bob, Kate. 
 Director’s Report 
o FY19 is 91.6% complete. At the moment we are 82% spent. By the end of FY19, virtually our entire budget 
will be spent.  Muir presented an update to the FY20 Budget. LPL is flat-funded for FY20. 
o A new Library Assistant and a new Page have been hired 
o Muir continues to work on new Staff hiring to fill the remaining Staff librarian opening. Three interviews are 
scheduled for the week of May 27th. One is a second interview. 
o There was some discussion around the role of ‘Assistant Director’. The town job ti tle is Staff Librarian. 
o Muir will provide the BOT with an org chart at a future meeting. 
 Signature Authorization Form 
o BOT signed and submitted a new form to allow Muir, as the new Director, the authority to pay bills.  
 Supplemental Funds Report – Submitted by Dick. These are funds the library holds outside of the town budget. See 
Attachment. 
 Director Evaluation 
o Muir holds a 15-month contract so the timing of his evaluation will be changed to coincide with the Town’s 
budget planning cycle. 
o The board determined that the evaluation forms should go out after the Sept. 2019 meeting – around Oct. 
21st and be back by Nov. 7th to give the Personnel Committee time to review the evaluations and make salary 
recommendations for the Director. 

===PAGE 2===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
May 23, 2019; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 2 
 
o The Director evaluation needs to be timed between the Nov. town budget and the Director’s meeting with the 
town manager in Jan. 2020. 
o The evaluation and salary recommendation should be completed for the Dec BOT meeting. 
 THES Reading Program Update 
o Muir has followed up with the school and library staff and will continue to work on building a collaborative 
relationship with the schools.  
o Discussion centered around the philosophy and logistics of interacting with larger community groups. The 
BOT is in favor of collaboration and partnership with the schools. Do we need a policy in place to establish 
the number of people that constitutes a group? 
o Maia suggested a simplified policy: If the size of a group passes a certain threshold (12?) then the Director 
with determine how that collaboration, in terms of logistics and scheduling, will work.  
o This will be revisited in the BOT Sept. 2019 meeting, in time for any possible group visits.  
 Friends of LPL Update 
o It was noted that the Friends meet the first Monday of the month and any representative of the BOT is 
welcome and encouraged to attend. 
o The Book and Bake sale is scheduled for Saturday June 1 st. 
o A new Friends initiative/project on bee pollination lead by Robin Venezia was noted. A related presentation is 
scheduled for June 26th. 
o  
 Board Comments 
o Donna asked about the staff hierarchy of the library in order to fulfill her role on the personnel committee. 
Muir will provide an org chart. 
o Harry noted that the BOT should interact and support Muir but not be involved in an y internal library issues. 
Muir should also feel free to consult the BOT whenever needed. 
 Agenda Items for upcoming meetings 
o Trustees’ Pocket Guide  
o Trustee Goal Setting 
o Library Strategic Plan  
o Library/School Interactions – THES reading programs 
o Supplemental Fund Use 
o Plan for Director Evaluation 
o Group Policy – Hopefully this will go to the Policy sub-committee prior to general meeting  
 
 Adjourn 
o The meeting was adjourned at 9:25 p.m.  Lars made the motion to adjourn, seconded by Donna. Motion 
unanimously approved. 
 Attached Documents 
o 2019 04 18 Library Director’s Report 
o Children's Room Trustee's Report for March 2019 
o YA April 2019 Trustee Report 
o Supplemental Funds Report 
 
 
 
 
  
===PAGE 3===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
May 23, 2019; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 3 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
May 23, 2019; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 4 
 
 
===PAGE 5===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
May 23, 2019; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 5 
 
 
===PAGE 6===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
May 23, 2019; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 6 
 
 
===PAGE 7===
 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes 
May 23, 2019; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library 
 
Page 7 
 
 