===OCR macOS Vision===
===PAGE 1===
Conroy, Lars Widstrand, Harry Kubetz.
The LPLBT meeting was called to order at 6:46 p.m. by Chairperson Harry Kubetz.
Public Comment
• Kate McCarron offered a public apology for any confusion or misconstruing of her remarks in the process for electing
the new slate of officers for 2019.
Agenda Items
• Approval of Minutes
The minutes for May 23, 2019 were reviewed. Some amendments were suggested. Motion to approve
minutes as amended was unanimously approved by roll call.
• Director's Report
Budget is not 100% expended yet
• Karen Brochu, Director of Municipal Finance, will do a budget transfer to cover expenses in various areas of
the library such as library materials and technology needs.
Some discussion ensued on various technology needs:
Upgrading the backup capability beyond the current one copy. Estimate of $1200 for this.
• Current network configuration requires periodic (every 3-5 years) replacement of access points
• Cost of upgrade to library network: $2400 to upgrade bandwidth
• There are sometimes internet access problems and Comcast doesn't register an issue.
• Some issues with thin clients- Heather has to clear search histories. One option is to replace with
Chrome boxes.
* Add CWMARS wireless access points.
• Add/upgrade digital signage: replace monitor on column in lobby with larger monitor to run
Powerpoint. Estimate for this is $400.
Muir is finalizing an offer for a new staff librarian.
This week has been a fine-free week with $406 in fines forgiven.
Summer reading is in full swing and participation has been very high.
In the teen room the 'Magic the Gathering' program is going very well and cruise night signups have doubled
from last year.
• O
The train table in the children's area has died and was replaced by Debbie Laffond with money from the
Friends.
Dick asked about the children's summer lunches - could they be increased? Muir was considering adding
another day for lunches (increasing to 3 per week) but noted that it would put a strain on staffing.
Muir handed out a library org chart.
Discussion followed on the makeup of union and non-union positions within the library and the distinction
between both. The rules and benefits are governed by town bylaw and are defined within the job categories
in the SAP application. There are 8 steps within each pay grade and each job title has an assigned pay
grade.
Lars noted that there are two staff volunteers for town tax abatement.
• Donna asked about cross-training among the staff. Muir said it could be improved but that everyone works
the desk and Maribeth is a backup for the children's area.
• Trust Fund Expenditure Guidance/Process/Progress
• Muir met with Myleen (town treasurer) regarding the library trust funds.
• Myleen manages the funds and is amenable to BOT wishes regarding handing-off management to
the BOT or consolidating. She needs a proper procedure in place to accomplish this.
:
===PAGE 2===
• BOT can now determine what to do.
Appoint a treasurer? May incur additional fees.
Confer with town consel on best way to proceed and what the
ramifications might be.
• Dick: Do we have a volunteer to manage this process? Before we appoint someone or think about
using these funds we should have a full vote of the BOT to know how to proceed.
• Donna: What is the role of this BOT treasurer/liason? We control funds, determine how to utilize,
should have one representative to liaise with Myleen.
* Harry suggested he would work together with Maia and committed to having some answers for our
next meeting.
• A motion was made to have Harry and Maia investigate options and how to make informed
decisions. Motion passed with Maia opposed.
• Plan for Director Evaluation
• BOT will use the same form and the procedure that we have already discussed
• Friends of LPL Update
• Update from Kate. Semi-annual book and bake sale raised $3013.
• Friends annual meeting is scheduled for July 20% from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m.
• Group Policy
• Continuation of ongoing discussion of library policy for accommodating regular visits of large groups.
• Dick asked if we had a current policy and Muir replied that we do not.
• Discussion followed on policy language, defnition of group, scheduling: recurring or one time only. Muir read
a policy he got from the Chelmsford library. Donna suggested need for advance reservation.
• Dick questioned the need for a policy and made a motion to pass over it, seconded by Lars. Motion failed. In
favor: Dick, Lars, Bob. Opposed: Maia, Kate, Harry, Donna.
• Muir suggested the following succinct language: 'Group use of the library is at the discretion of the director.
• Donna made a motion to accept this, seconded by Lars. The motion passed unanimously.
• Library Strategic Plan
• Question was raised whether to budget money to hire consultants to help develop a strategic plan. Will be
held for future consideration.
• Board Comments
• No board comments
• Adjourn
• Dick made a motion to adjourn seconded by Donna. Unanimousiy approved and the meeting was adjourned
at 8:40 p.m.
• Attached Documents
June 2019 Director's Report
• LPL Org Chart
June 2019 YA Report
June 2019 Children's Area Report
• Friend's Report for LPL Trustees
===PAGE 3===
Financia s:
¡LIBRARY DIRECTOR SALARY: S
ASST LIBRARY DIRECTOR SAI S
LIBRARY STAFF SALARIES
TIES Salaries
BLDG REPAIRS & NTC
,SEWERAGE DISPOSAL
ELECTRICITY CHARGES
1$
$
'HEATING CHARGES/NATURA
WATER CHARGES
5
NETWORK MAINTENANCE
BOOK SERVICE
15
CONTRACTED SERVICES
WINARS NETWORK
POSTAGE
¡CUSTODIAL SUPPLIES
LIBRARY MATERIAL
'MILEAGE ROMBURSCMENT
TOTALS
FY20 Budget
72,517
10,5
17C,176 176)
$
$
$
1,000
550
22,500
$
12,000
$
657
5
500.
3,500
4,000.
$
11,000
$
300
3,800
200
66,00
301.
FY19 Budget
53,351
38,710
L62,347.!
7,20U
975
375
22,344
25,000
550
551
416277$
edget Expends
93,658
S
S
35,9761
153,534
2,505
202 :
400
15,715
12,033J
617
239
1,175
30,000
300
5,000
200
78,171
600
5
1,175 J
8,700
5,575
65,757
355
428,539 $ 381,404......
% Expen
#DIV/O!
97%
9320
95801
35%0
21%
80%
65%
84%;
95%
4381
104%
87%
0%
61%I
C*S
54%!
50%
89%I
*frowil be 00 completed June feet
• Staff
intuir is ca ling references for do cancidates in hopes of making at offer to one of them: this woek,
Second interviens were offered to four candidates, and oro whose antential for the rele really
sface our. We ray have news an this fiont before our meeting Thursday.
nur dilended the Jane 18 User's Coumeong for (whArs. ot special note, the auto-renewa
feature was votel to be terred onlulys so attended a train reworkshop for he new ARS*
pearle.
(Rat) Inserface, which should be very rent over themest nonchs as the report is prepared, Alismet Air i fee
with by pen the town treasurer concerning the ibrary restructs.
inuir has let Heidi and Kate Burnham know chat we are ready to meet and see it a visit program is
possible for this coming year. He hes follored up once since iher, as well.
===PAGE 4===
will fine been de vostock buyears a a treet were some eat stories
1.ma yu, Walking to ston? in Judari, une a xile a presentation on the colek
prograrivini ers Rob Gegear, percot the Friends special project, and Miss Debbic will host a
serial SFul pragram with secd starting activities on tune 29. Let Ta entron the Home of Ung
Worlds Worst Weather!' a program trom it Washinglon Observatory's outreach team. We wil also
host a Friday night concert July 12 Mare Berger-out un the patio it weather cooperates. Later it:
themonth, we"l offer enother intru co Reikiaras entat on with mini sessions avcilabie. We also neve
a volunteer who will oner tech assistance on July 13, bait For sessions will be available from 10 to
Summer Read re Buttor Week has been a huge hit. We will run cut of huttons probably before
Thersdey, and lupefully will be restocker with supplies Thursday morning. We startud with 400
buttons.
• Bullding & Maintenance
- Mur metwth Job Hanshaw and Michelle Waron to discuss the process of capital planning and
how best te address some of che library's ricar futuro needs with this planning Ki; has heed working
on calibrating the buffer settings for the HVAC 50 that we woste less Curgy as the system over
shoots and comecis.
===PAGE 5===
36
Ano.C
irim
NON
cemisa
pages!
Leosi
===PAGE 6===
In April, 32 tweens/teens participated in Power Hour. In May there were 43 attendees. By lune, the program had fizzler.
ded altundues as finals were over and the toons/tweens had very letle homework. Urentand will be meetine over che
summer to discuss the suture of this program.
GAMING:
Video gamenght wes held ondune 10 wilt 9 Allendees. it will be neld again beginning in septomber,
Board Came wil be held on lune ya. After that it will not he held again until Septemher.
DUNGEONS & DRAGONS
Tuesday June 11 was Us official library DOD ięht. Anoler new player juined the compen brine as the proud do 10
players.
"he prog am continues to be popular doing fit attennees per sessin? While there will be no monthly official
DaO during the surrer the group sail plans to meet acthe library desdays and Thursdays to play. The official monthly
IRa wil begin again in Septemher.
MAGIC THE GATHERING:
Magic the Gallering night was had on Mednesday May 22 with 2 allendees who were beyond excited the torary hat
card decks. Bott attendees are overjoyed to have a pace to play outside of their families and at arhool. They've take
ownership of the program and, in addition to caching me how to play, came up witn ideas for advertising and
information. for the flyers to artart more crapers. Mi Night will be held again an Weenesday dune le. after that it will
not be held again until Septemoer.
CALL OF CTHLAHU
Saturday June 1E the Brary hosted a Call of Chuthu role- play gome program. Col. is similar to Dungeon's & Brapons but
urus cifferent dice rules and the goal is for your character to go insane by che ano of the campaign by serding them
aganst increase y difficult situations and monsters Dungeons & Dragons is more fontasy characters and fantastical
situations while Call of Cthulhu has its grounds in reality and puts real people into situations with the unkrown beyond
the scope of human comorchension.
I chose to otter this program because the seers wante to tind new was to run the insaniy rules in D&D. Laiso ivanted
tonintroduce them tonev RPG concuuts and now ways ofstory building When I pilched this program un Jere 1éel were
erciced to try t.
Setarday teen programs are ail ormoss as faras ellendance and only one player allended. However as the D&D group
DM his teedback was very valuable. I will be purchating the insanity cards used gaming collection to introduce in tre fall
Per his suggestion, will try thy again in October so coincide with Halloween.
SUMMER READING 2019:
Summer reading registration kicked oft at Classic Car Night an Wednesday lune 12. Debhie and i set up a table on
outsile the Duys' & Gins Club, Lostyear wur toble was down un the library palio and we only had 23 sign ups. This year.
with cur new action woe do ed cur repistration number and had 52 senaos, 1l al whom were loons.
===PAGE 7===
Number of uhluen's special programs oftered
Program Attendance (children & adults)
Use of Story Crait Room! incudes all program usage?
265
18
Story Time Programs 2019 -Theme for this school year: "Reading Is Your Window to a New Word".
Program Highlights:
"Little Tykes Story Time". Our theme for May was "In the Garden!" We talked, sung. read and
made crafts pertaining to fiowers, bugs, and vegetables. This is such a great theme to end sur
year on as story limes for this school year end at the end of May.
• "preschoolers Story Time"- The children in this group returned to "home sweet home" this
montn. We talked shout the many places we "visited in our year of exploring "Reading is Your
Window to a New World"
"Legos at the Library Club"- Our challenge for this month was to make a depo race son ard
then race it. This is always a popular activity with parents and caregivers gelling in on the act!
lots of discussions and modifications with this activity as we explored who won and who did t
and what we can da to make our cars even better!
• "Children's Book Group- Tuesdays with Stories" For the month of April, each child in aook
group was to choose a tavorite book, give a briaf synopsis, and then convince the rest of the
group to read it. We also got to enjay Lhe accompanying snacks that each reader provided to
go alang with their book. This is a fun way to end the book group year and, hopefully, everyone
leaves excited for next year's club!
"STEM Saturday", May 11" @ 11:00
"5 Engineering Challenges "
This Saturday the kids had 5 different engineering challenges using only 3 different materials-
clothes pins, binder clips and craft sticks!
===PAGE 8===
•
Wimida
Our old train table (which sons a generous donatier from
one of our families] finally rel apart after many hours of enthusiaslic play. With the funds
provided by the Friends, I was able to purchase this solid wooder table with lots of storage and
rew-to-us trains and tracks. Gotte love Facebook tularketplace!
Technology updates
Late rescarching some additions and upgrades lo por computers and
device usage in the Children's Area. 1amn hoping to add 4 new touch screen computers and a
cia ging station far the Juvenile Area. We are seeing e7 increase in the number of 5% graders
who use this area arter school for homewor and I would like to provide options for charging
their devices. More into to follow.
Summer Lunches
We will be pravding frap lunches each Monday and Wednesday again this
summer in conjunction wit: Cradles to Crayons. Our lunches will be prouded by Sadero of
Fitchburg whom we have worked with very sucessfully ion the past.
UPCOMING EVENTS:
SRP 2019 "Librarles are a Universe of Storles"
• June 12th - Cruise Night- registration begins for SRP 2019 with specio! rotfle
• June 17:- 20th - SRP Kirr-Off "Futton Week" Come each cay to make a special button &
co lect a raftle ticket for a special drawing
• June 24. July 29th@ 10:00 "Tots & Blocks Story lime"
• June 24- July 29u @ 11:00- "Make it Monday" Weekly Craft activity
• June 25-July 30" @Z:00 - "wesday Afernoon at the litrary" Drop In activity oTering which
wil change weekly
• June 26*- Juty 31" @ 11:00- "Wow, Wednesday!" Weekly large scale programs with a variety of
program presenters. June 26"- MOS program "Rockets, There and Back Again!"
Respactfully submitted.
Debra Laffond, Childrer's librarian
===PAGE 9===
summer programs: $1,500/aduit; $500/children, $1,500/4A supplies and program
The next sale will be ory Oct. 5*
A motion was made and approver to pay for the custodial fees associated with the June 30* Walking to
Listen library program
The Friends have elected the tollawing board tar the upcoming year:
Pres, Jane Crook
Vice Pres. Jeanne Rabin
Trcasurer: Lydia Henshow
• New position created to helg lighten her load Membership Chair: Robin Venezia (will work with
Lydia keeping records/names/fees, send notices to members, extract email list for usure uy
MailChimp
Their next ancing Is the Annual Friend's meeting on July 20 trom 10-12 and will be a
breakfast. They will not be meeting agzin until September
