===PAGE 1===
 
 
 Lunenburg Public Library  Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes  January 17, 2019 Wallace Community Room, Lunenburg Public Library    Attending: Dick Mailloux, Maia Wentrup, Kate McCarron, Martha Moore – Director LPL, Donna Saiia, Bob Conroy,  Michelle Walton – FinCom representative, Lars Widstrand, Harry Kubetz (participating remotely)   The LPLBT meeting was moved from the Sudolnik Room to the Wallace Community Room due to heating issues and called to order at 6:50 p.m. by Chairperson Dick Mailloux. Dick asked that all votes be taken by roll call as to include Harry.   Public Comment -There was no Public Comment  Approval of Minutes The December 20, 2018 minutes were reviewed and amended by Dick, Kate and Donna.  Kate made the motion to accept them as amended. Lars seconded.  Motion unanimously approved.     Director’s Report (Presented by Martha)  FY 2019 Budget – 58% into the budget year and 43% spent see attached  Budget Planning for FY ’20- Martha met with Heather Lemieux to discuss the budget and explain the need for an increase in staff hours and the advantages of adding an additional union position for Marybeth Balboni. Heather was not in favor, explaining that the town cannot accept additional benefit costs and retirement liability. Martha has contacted the union to file an application with them and try a different approach. Dick recommended increasing the Director’s Salary line from $60,000 - $70,000 to reflect current salaries paid to directors in towns of similar size, thus increasing the ability to attract and negotiate with highly qualified applicants. On 1/27/19 there will be a 5 cent increase in postage stamps so Donna recommended a $50 increase in that line item. The TM budget target is $413,592 and the LPL request reflecting the additional monies for director and stamps is $434,200. Donna made a motion to accept the amended budget, seconded by Lars, unanimously approved.                                                                                                                                                                                         Trust Fund Update combined with Trust Fund Expenditure Guidance –Still investigating how to access funds and the original intent regarding Bartholomew accounts. There are 6 interest-only funds. Michelle said there’s no problem spending money from the earnings and that those funds not designated as interest only require only a source document and then can be spent. Touchstone Funds are either expendable or non-expendable and whoever makes a donation must sign off on an intent for the money. Martha submitted a Donor Intention Form to Myleen and Karen for their approval. Dick made a motion to accept the donor form, Bob seconded, and the board voted unanimously to accept. Donna emphasized the need for a tie-back to that form on all expenditures.  Staff – Teen Room renovations are done and all is well in the Children’s Room! (see attached) Muir asked if he could attend future board meetings to be better prepared for a smooth transition for whoever replaces Martha and the board enthusiastically replied yes.  

===PAGE 2===
 Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes January 17, 2019; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
Page 2  
 Technology – Heather and Dan Nataraski met to discuss future library needs, two being a larger back-up system and an upgrade to the existing WiFi. Martha proposed using $4,000 from State Aid to pay for the back-up system and will submit a request this to Steve Malandrinos for expanded network capacity.  Donna asked if an increase would also alter the budget.  Programs –Muir has been in contact with the author of Walking to Listen regarding a presentation at LPL. Due to agent changes, the fee is much less than first proposed and a June booking is in the works! Muir has also connected with ALFA regarding a Sherlock Holmes presentation.  Building & Maintenance – The roof unit on the left side of the building still freezes. New parts have been ordered. Martha will leave a maintenance project timeline for the next director.  THES Program Update – A meeting took place on January 10th to discuss all aspects of this trial program. In attendance were Martha Moore, Dick Mailloux, Harry Kubetz, Heidi Champagne, Rhonda Connery, Michael Smith and Jeff Connery. They assessed goals, discussed possible changes, identified pluses and challenges. Winter weather and MCAS testing will interrupt regular visits.– see attached  Capital Planning Update – Currently there is no Capital Plan. Martha has had little to no luck attracting any contractors to give bids on the various projects. The assumption is that these jobs, in the scheme of things, are too small to bother with. Kit has proposed to the DPW that they explore using an agency to solicit contractors.  Young Adult Area Report- see attached  Children’s Area Report – see attached  Process and Timeline for Choosing New Director –Currently there are only 2 applicants, thus the board will not need a screening sub-committee, though Feb 7 has been penciled in should more applications arrive. Dick will contact the applicants regarding interview dates, tentatively scheduled for Feb. 26 and Feb 28.  Friends of LPL Update - $450 in profit from the Cookie Walk. Next year there will be 2 sizes of boxes available ($10 & $15) as well as a sample box to indicate the suggested box capacity. Still looking into Library Golf as a fund raiser.  March Caucus – Dick is thinking about running for another term, Donna is definitely in.  Agenda Items for upcoming meetings – Accepting Letter of Resignation, Trust Fund Guidance, Update on Main Street Bank’s reading incentive program  Board Comments – ask Dick to think a little harder about running!  Public Comment - none  
===PAGE 3===
 Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes January 17, 2019; Sudolnik Conference Room, Lunenburg Public Library  
Page 3  
Adjourn – Lars made a motion to adjourn, seconded by Maia, unanimously approved. Dick adjourned the meeting at 8:38 pm. •   Respectfully submitted, Kate McCarron, Trustee, for Harry Kubetz, Secretary Vice-Chair, Secretary & Trustee of Lunenburg Public Library  Referenced documents: LPLBOT Meeting Agenda for January 17, 2019 Directors Report of December 20, 2018 FY 2020 Budget Detail THES 7 LPL Meeting Overview Children’s Area Report for the month of December, 2018 Young Adult Services Report for the month of December 2018 LPL Director Search Planning Calendar  