===PAGE 1===
 
 
 
Lunenburg Public Library 
Trustees of Lunenburg Public Library, Meeting minutes February 15, 2024   
Attending: Bob Conroy – arrived 7:08, Harry Kubetz, Dick Mailloux - remote - left 8:10, Donna Saiia, Muir 
Haman – Director LPL, Laura Boussom, Maia Wentrup - remote, Jana-Lee Balish.   
 
The LPLBT meeting was called to order at 6:46 p.m. by Chairperson Harry Kubetz.  
 
Public Comment 
● Harry asked if anyone could attend the Town Caucus to nominate candidates for open positions since Dick can't go 
this year.  Donna said she will go. 
 
Agenda Items 
 
● Approval of Minutes 
o Donna made a motion to accept the minutes of January 18, 2024 as amended, seconded by Jana. The 
motion passed unanimously by roll call vote. 
 
● Director’s Report 
o February is month 8 out of 12. We are 67% through the year and the budget is 54% expended.  
o Payment made to Ingram for books. 
o The library was closed on Tuesday, the 13th, due to the anticipated snow storm. 
o Two new employees started on the 14th.  Melanie King is the new Digital Services Librarian and Outreach 
Coordinator. She worked part time at the Leominster and Lancaster libraries, and has web and digital 
experience. Kaitee Himmelberger is the new Young Adult Services Librarian.  She previous ly worked part time 
at the Holy Cross and Worcester Art Museum libraries. 
o Interlibrary Loan deliveries have been erratic recently, but a new driver has been hired by Optima Courier and 
Muir is optimistic that deliveries will return to normal. 
o Muir is presenting his proposed FY25 budget to the Finance Committee next Thursday.  Muir requested 
$613,099.77, and Heather's preliminary budget is $589,099.77.  Heather's budget is a 6% increase from last 
year. Muir requested 14k for technology that Heather is funding through the IT department.  
o Muir is uncertain how the school's budget shortfall of $1.5 million will affect other departments..  
o The CWMARS Bylaws Committee finished a draft of the Internal Privacy Policy for the network and sent it to 
the executive committee for review and potential legal feedback. 
o The Friends book donation sorting location has been moved out of the staff work area and relocated  to the 
storage closet at the entrance to the Children's Room. This change is to prevent access to non-public areas of 
the library in case we ever have a visit from a First Amendment audit group. 
o A member of the Master Plan Steering Committee asked Muir if the library might permanently house a 3D 
topographical map of the town during and after the master planning process. Muir will keep the conversation 
open and is trying to think of a solution for this request. 
o Programs included a virtual tea tasting, an introduction to Tarot, and a video game night.  A virtual garden tour 
had some technical difficulties, but was still well attended. The puzzle race was canceled based on feedback 
that the timing wasn't good for interested participants. 
o STEM kits have finally launched.  The Children's Room staff are trained and kits are being promoted.  
o Muir asked our opinion about replacements for the security cameras.  He has two options.  Verkada will cost 
36k, and if approved through the Capital Plan at Town Meeting, the money would be available 7/1/24. The 
Lunenburg Police already use Verkada, and Casey of Suzor IT supports going with Verkada. A Millennium 
Alarm system could be completed quicker and cheaper (under 10k).  We would not need to wait for it to be 
approved through the Capital Plan. Maya suggested that Muir investigate and compare the long -term costs of 
the two systems. Harry asked Muir to draft a letter to Michael-Ray Jeffries and ask him for his opinion. 
o The missing phone has been located.  It was installed under a desk in the Children’s Work Office.  The main 
line can now be picked up from most extensions, which is very helpful. 
o The backup systems for the server malfunctioned, and Dan has not been able to restore that yet.  
 
 

===PAGE 2===
 
 
● Green Communities Update 
o Muir has not heard from Dave Blatt of the Green Communities Committee about funding for a new HVAC 
system. Muir will contact Michael-Ray Jeffreys to get advice on how to proceed. 
 
● Library Invested Funds Update 
o The funds remain at 93k. 
 
● Library Sign Update 
o No update. 
 
● ARPA Update 
o Muir shared the initial drawings for the Teen Room renovation with us and asked for feedback.  Donna asked 
if the new librarian’s office area could be made a safe room.  Muir thought the staff entry way, which has 
locking doors, would be a better area for a safe spot. Harry and Jana expressed concerns about increased 
noise. Discussion was had about flipping the design to put the increased teen space towards the front of the 
library and the librarian’s office towards the back of the library. This would put t he noise from the Teen Room 
in the front of the library, hopefully keeping the back of the library quiet.  Dick asked if soundproofing materials 
can be incorporated into the design. 
The renovations will increase the teen area by 30% to 40%. 
 
● Town Caucus Update 
o The town caucus will be held on March 25th at 7 PM.  
o Terms are up for Bob, Laura and Maia. 
 
● Friends of LPL Update  
o The Friends will be opening a short-term CD with 20k at 5.2%.  This is money they will not need access to in 
the short-term. 
o The native plant sale has started and deposits are being taken. 
 
● Board Comments 
o No comments 
 
● Adjourn 
o Motion to adjourn by Donna. Seconded by Bob. Meeting was adjourned at 8:44 p.m 
 
● Attached Documents 
o February 15, 2024 Agenda 
o February Director’s Report 
o February 2024 Youth Services Report 
===PAGE 3===
 
 
 
 
 
 
===PAGE 4===
 
 

===PAGE 5===
 

===PAGE 6===
 
 

===PAGE 7===
 
 