===PAGE 1===
  
   Lunenburg  Public  Library   Trustees  of  Lunenburg  Public  Library,  Meeting  Minutes  April  17,  2025   Attending:   Harry  Kubetz,  Laura  Boussom,  Maia  Wentrup  (remote),  Jana-Lee  Balish,  David  Niose,  Muir  Haman,  
Micheal-Ray
 
Jeffreys
 
(remote)
  The  LPLBT  meeting  was  called  to  order  at  6:51  p.m.  by  Chairperson  Harry  Kubetz.   Discussion  about  the  redevelopment  of  Brooks  House  ●  Michael-Ray  Jeffreys  gave  a  summary  of  the  status  of  the  Brooks  House.  ○  An  article  submitted  by  the  Architectural  Preservation  District  Committee  passed  at  the  2024  Special  Town  
Meeting
 
directing
 
the
 
Select
 
Board
 
to
 
come
 
up
 
with
 
a
 
plan
 
for
 
the
 
sale
 
or
 
lease
 
of
 
the
 
Brooks
 
House.
 
 ○  Per  the  Municipal  Building  Design  Committee,  the  Brooks  House  is  surplus  property  and  has  no  municipal  use.  ○  Town  records  show  that  the  20  parking  spots  behind  the  Brooks  House  were  designated  for  use  by  the  Brooks  
House.
 ○  The  article  passed  at  Town  Meeting  advised  that  the  plan  include  an  easement  to  use  up  to  eight  additional  
parking
 
spaces
 
at
 
the
 
library.
 ○  The  only  access  to  the  Brooks  House  is  through  the  library  parking  lot.  Town  records  show  that  it  was  decided  that  
no
 
access
 
should
 
be
 
available
 
from
 
the
 
school
 
driveway,
 
and
 
there
 
is
 
no
 
place
 
for
 
access
 
from
 
Mass
 
Ave.
 ●  Michael-Ray  left  the  meeting  and  the  trustees  continued  to  discuss  the  pros  and  cons  of  the  sale  or  lease  of  the  Brooks  
House.
 
There
 
were
 
concerns
 
about
 
losing
 
access
 
to
 
the
 
20
 
parking
 
spots
 
behind
 
the
 
Brooks
 
House,
 
and
 
having
 
to
 
share
 
any
 
parking
 
spots
 
with
 
a
 
future
 
business
 
located
 
there.
 
The
 
library
 
parking
 
lot
 
is
 
frequently
 
full
 
as
 
it
 
is
 
now.
 
There
 
were
 
also
 
concerns
 
about
 
safety
 
with
 
the
 
potential
 
increase
 
in
 
traffic,
 
especially
 
during
 
the
 
after
 
school
 
hours
 
when
 
there
 
is
 
a
 
lot
 
of
 
foot
 
traffic
 
with
 
students
 
walking
 
through
 
the
 
library
 
property.
 ●  Muir  shared  a  statement  from  Tony  Sculimbrene,  Chair  of  the  APDC,  in  which  he  stated  support  for  the  restoration  of  the  
Brooks
 
House.
 ●  Muir  and  the  Trustees  need  to  be  included  in  the  decision-making  process  for  the  disposition  of  the  Brooks  House.   Public  Comment  ●  No  public  comment.   Agenda  Items  ●  Approval  of  Minutes  of  March  20,  2025  ○  Jana  made  a  motion  to  accept  the  minutes  of  March  20,  2025  as  amended,  seconded  by  David.  The  motion  
passed
 
unanimously.
 
  ●  Director’s  Report  ○  FY2025  Budget  Update  The  fiscal  year  is  75%  completed.  One  library  staff  member  is  on  Family  and  Medical  Leave  for  three  weeks.  Other  staff  have  been  covering  for  
them.
 
Muir
 
can
 
cover
 
any
 
additional
 
cost
 
using
 
excess
 
from
 
heating
 
and
 
electricity.
 The  remaining  funds  in  Library  Materials  will  be  going  towards  databases.  Renewals  happen  in  June.  
 ○  FY2026  Budget  Update  No  update.    ○  Staff  Update  The  library  shared  calls  to  participate  in  Empowered  by  Libraries  from  MBLC  and  Show  Up  for  Our  Libraries  
from
 
the
 
ALA,
 
two
 
advocacy
 
opportunities
 
for
 
people
 
to
 
communicate
 
with
 
legislators
 
about
 
why
 
libraries
 
are
 
important
 
to
 
them.
 
Muir
 
also
 
asked
 
the
 
Select
 
Board
 
to
 
sign
 
a
 
letter
 
initiated
 
by
 
Mayor
 
Petty
 
of
 
Worcester
 
asking
 
our
 
congressional
 
delegation
 
to
 
voice
 
their
 
resistance
 
to
 
IMLS
 
cuts.
 
Chairperson
 
Nuzzolo
 
signed
 
on
 
behalf
 
of
 
the
 
board.
 

===PAGE 2===
 
Melanie,  Lydia,  and  Muir  have  finalized  a  proposal  for  outreach  services.  Muir  reviewed  the  plan  with  us.   It  
identifies
 
the
 
target
 
groups
 
for
 
outreach,
 
identifies
 
their
 
needs,
 
and
 
has
 
a
 
list
 
of
 
action
 
items
 
to
 
meet
 
those
 
needs.
 
David
 
made
 
a
 
motion
 
to
 
accept
 
the
 
action
 
item
 
list
 
under
 
the
 
Outreach
 
Plan,
 
seconded
 
by
 
Jana.
 
The
 
motion
 
passed
 
unanimously.
  ○  Programs  Update  Muir  reported  that  Deb  Goodsell,  Director  of  the  Council  on  Aging,  is  talking  to  their  Meals  on  Wheels  clients  
about
 
home
 
delivery
 
of
 
books.
 Muir  is  submitting  a  grant  application  to  Main  Street  Bank,  requesting  that  they  provide  funds  to  pay  for  
summer
 
lunches
 
again
 
this
 
year.
  ○  Technology  Update  Another  of  the  new  Dell  computers  broke.  Muir  is  contacting  the  vendor.    ○  Building  &  Maintenance  Update  The  Proctor  Memorial  Garden  water  feature  should  be  running  this  week.  Test  pits  for  the  rainwater  garden  were  dug  last  week.   ●  Conroy  Memorial  Garden  discussion  ○  Bob’s  family  are  supportive  of  our  plans  for  a  garden  and  would  like  to  work  with  us  to  make  it  happen.   ●  ARPA  Update  ○  No  update  on  the  amount  of  contingency  funds  that  will  be  spent.  Muir  will  follow  up  with  Chris  Ruth  about  
this.
  ●  Room  Use  /  Tutors  in  the  Library  (deferred  from  March)  ○  There  has  been  a  lot  of  competition  for  quiet  study  rooms  for  tutoring,  Zoom  calls,  and  quiet  study.  ○  Rooms  can  be  reserved  for  a  time  slot  for  up  to  two  weeks.  ○  Tutors  are  running  a  business.  Is  there  a  town  rule  against  using  public  property  to  make  a  profit?  ○  Allowing  students  to  be  tutored  in  the  library  also  benefits  the  students.  ○  There  are  no  changes  being  made  to  the  Quiet  Room  policy  right  now.  Muir  will  continue  to  keep  an  eye  on  
this.
  ●  Hoopla  Report  ○  At  our  last  meeting,  the  Trustees  asked  Muir  if  he  could  cancel  Hoopla  due  to  AI  and  security  issues.  Hoopla  
requires
 
a
 
written
 
request
 
and
 
it
 
will
 
take
 
60
 
days
 
for
 
cancellation.
 ○  Muir  checked  the  accounts  with  suspicious  emails  and  found  that  we  had  20  such  accounts,  but  all  seemed  
OK
 
when
 
he
 
compared
 
them
 
to
 
the
 
ILS.
 ○  Muir  looked  at  the  top  500  items  requested  and  did  not  see  anything  that  looked  like  AI.  ○  Hoopla  tracking  personal  information  may  still  be  an  issue,  but  we  do  not  know.  ○  Muir  will  not  be  cancelling  Hoopla  but  will  keep  an  eye  on  reported  concerns.   ●  Library  Invested  Funds  update  ○  No  update.   ●  Brooks  House  update/discussion  ○  See  first  item  above.   ●  Friends  Update  ○  Janet  Winer,  Abby  Perrine,  and  Lydia  Henshaw  are  working  on  the  library’s  20th  anniversary.  ○  The  native  plant  sale  and  the  book  and  bake  sale  were  discussed.  ○  Discussed  whether  having  an  ongoing  book  sale  vs  two  yearly  sales,  or  some  combination  of  those,  makes  the  
most
 
sense.
 
This
 
is
 
a
 
continuing
 
discussion.
 
 
===PAGE 3===
  
○  Robin  made  a  list  of  what  she  does  for  the  Friends  so  that  others  can  pick  up  those  tasks,  in  anticipation  of  her  
becoming
 
a
 
trustee
 
after
 
the
 
election
 
in
 
May.
   ●  Discuss  our  June  meeting  time.  It  falls  on  June  19th,  the  Juneteenth  holiday.  ○  The  library  is  closed  on  June  19th.  We  will  be  meeting  on  June  12th.   ●  Board  Comments  ○  None   ●  Other  ○  None   ●  Adjourn  ○  A  motion  to  adjourn  was  made  by  David,  seconded  by  Jana.  The  motion  passed  unanimously.   Meeting  was  
adjourned
 
at
 
9:17
 
p.m.
  ●  Attached  Documents  ○  March  2025  Director’s  Report  ○  March  2025  Children’s  Services  Trustee  Report  ○  March  2025  Adult  Services  Department  Report                    
===PAGE 4===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC LIBRARY DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
   FY25 Budget Update 
 
   Staff Update 
The library shared calls to participate in “Empowered by Libraries” from MBLC, an advocacy 
opportunity to tell stories about how libraries have been important in your lives. We have bookmarks 
and postcards that people can write a short narrative about what libraries mean and submit to 
lovemasslibraries.com. I also requested the Select Board sign on to a letter initiated by Mayor Petty 
of Worcester asking our Congressional Delegation to voice their resistance to IMLS cuts. Chair 
Person Nuzzolo signed on behalf of the SB after their April 1 meeting.  
Melanie, Lydia and I have worked extensively the last few weeks to finalize a proposal for Outreach 
Services. Our plan is attached. 
I have discussed and assigned all staff projects in the staffing plan. Joslyn and Lydia are particularly 
about their projects.  
Kaitee is on FMLA, no return date yet. I met with Deb Bookis, Director of Learning and Teaching at 
the Schools to discuss partnerships and the schools draft of a Reconsideration Policy. There are 
several promising possibilities of partnerships, notably around STEM, OpSciEd curriculum and school 
library support. I will meet with Deb and Tara (STEM Lab) next. 
   Programs 
Kate Chadbourne’s concert had excellent turn out and was an impressive performance as always. 
Kate is also interested in volunteering a workshop for students who are preparing the college essays. 
Jason Graham’s music clinic continues to draw a nice crown, which was up to 19 in March and 20 in 
April. 
  FY25 Budget Budget Expended % Expended Calendar Completion
LIBRARY DIRECTOR SALARY       90,726$                    67,784$                              75% 75%
ASST LIBRARY DIRECTOR SALARY  64,023$                    47,349$                              74%
LIBRARY STAFF SALARIES        242,984$                  185,463$                            76%
BLDG REPAIRS & MTC            -$                          -$                                    
SEWERAGE DISPOSAL             1,000$                      634$                                    63%
ELECTRICITY CHARGES           22,500$                    9,646$                                43%
HEATING CHARGES/NATURAL GAS   18,500$                    9,832$                                53%
WATER CHARGES                 1,000$                      852$                                    85%
NETWORK MAINTENANCE           500$                          180$                                    36%
BOOK SERVICE                  4,500$                      4,476$                                99%
PROGRAMS 15,000$                    8,133$                                54%
CONTRACTED SERVICES           2,500$                      732$                                    29%
CWMARS NETWORK                22,630$                    22,630$                              100%
POSTAGE                       900$                          334$                                    37%
OFFICE SUPPLIES               7,000$                      3,306$                                47%
CUSTODIAL SUPPLIES            300$                          237$                                    79%
LIBRARY MATERIAL              94,000$                    31,292$                              33%
MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT         4,000$                      1,004$                                25%
TOTALS 592,063$                  393,885$                            67%
===PAGE 5===
LUNENBURG PUBLIC LIBRARY DIRECTOR’S REPORT 
Craft and Chill last Friday night had great turn out, too, with 27 signed up and 23 attendees. Monday’s 
grief support group was well attended and received positive feedback from the facilitator. She loved 
our library. This group was formerly meeting at LAAC. Tuesday night we hosted an Intro to 
Homeschooling program at the request of a local resident. 
Virtual Programming has offered a variety of topics, with low engagement. Most registrations seem 
to be people hoping to receive the recording to watch at a later date.  
Children’s Programming this month has been spectacular. Sensory Story Time with Pam Wockenfuss, 
Art with Julie, and STEM programming with Chris Rodrigues twice. Excellent experiences for 
attendees. 
Coming up: Thoreau’s “Economy” Reading 4/16, Visible Mending WKSP #2 4/18, Animal Adventures 
4/22, Japanese Folktales and Origami 4/23,  Crafternoon: Poem in Your Pocket 4/24, Open Mic Poetry 
Night 4/30 
   Outreach 
Outreach Plan proposal has been the focus this month. 
   Building & Maintenance 
The new cleaning crew continues to have trouble entering the building without setting off the alarm. 
They are tasked with cleaning everything, so we are keeping an eye on items that might get left out 
to correct now. 
The Proctor Memorial Garden water feature should return this coming week. Test pits for the 
rainwater garden happened last week. 
Susan Conroy and family are supportive of our plans and are very interested in helping with their 
labor to create the garden. 
   Technology 
Another of the new batch of Dell public access computers broke this week. I am reaching out to the 
vendor to see what can be done. This instance pushes the likelihood of a manufacturing defect up. 
Mason should be completing an install of security monitor in the Director’s Office this week. Melanie 
and I are planning the process of our ongoing digital resource assessment. 
===PAGE 6===
 
 
APRIL 2025 Children's Services Trustee Report  
MARCH STATS:  
               ACTIVITY                                                                              NUMBER / PARTICIPANTS 
LITTLE LISTENERS STORYTIME 5 178 
PRESCHOOL STORY TIME 3 65 
MAGIC TREE HOUSE BOOK CLUB KITS 1 8 
KIDS COMIC CLUB KITS 1 12 
DROP-IN CRAFT WITH MISS JOSLYN 1 27 
LEGOS AT THE LIBRARY  1 14 
HOMESCHOOLERS CRAFT- PUZZLE PAINTING 1         35 
S T E M WITH CHRIS- SIMPLE CIRCUITS 1 11 
S T E M WITH CHRIS- HYDRAULIC CRITTERS 1 11 
SENSORY STORY TIME WITH MISS PAM 1 10 
MOTHER’S DAY PLANTING- SEED SEWING 1 25 
ART CLASS WITH MISS JULIE 1 23 
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL GRAPHIC NOVEL WKSHP 1 3 
STEM KITS STATISTICS: 
Top 3 Kits: 
• Ozobot 
• Flowers and Unicorns Coding 
• Three Little Pigs Problem Solving 
32 KITS 10 Ci 
 
MONTHLY BUDGET REPORT:  
https://tinyurl.com/4bhd9dpu  
===PAGE 7===
 
PATRON QUOTE FOR MARCH: 
“I love your library!  I live in Leominster and work in Brookline, New Hampshire and this is the 
library that I choose to come to. I love coming here to your library!” 
 
HIGHLIGHTS FOR MARCH: 
SENSORY STORY TIME WITH MISS PAM: 
Pam Wockenfuss presented Light Up the Night sensory story time for an eager group of 10 children.   She 
shared this wonderful story with the kids and their families and then allowed time to experience the story with 
all of their senses through the use of individual sensory boxes.   Parents/caregivers are encouraged to 
participate along with the children as Pam explains the many benefits of sensory play. Lots of thought and 
sensory development awareness goes into developing the bins and I love that the kids get to keep them.
  
ART CLASS WITH MISS JULIE 
We held our first art class with Julie Harrold and the children loved it! Julie has a BFA in Studio Arts, is a former 
Elementary art teacher/Art director and currently a homeschool mom who also teaches art classes in her spare 
time.  She has a wonderful rapport with the kids, and they all benefit from her supportive, encouraging manner of 
teaching. 

===PAGE 8===
                
 
 
S T E M WITH CHRIS:  
Two great S T E M classes with Chris this month-  
Simple Circuits: This workshop focused on creative thinking, and problem solving through circuit wiring concepts 
such as parallel and series circuits.  Experimentation was key as the kids built their projects and got to see what 
didn’t work and they worked to find a solution that would. 
Hydraulic Critters: In this class, the kids learned about how hydraulics work while creating a hydraulic bug.   
                    
MOTHER’S DAY SEED PLANTING: 
On a cold, drizzly Saturday day we gathered in the Story Craft Room for a two-part plant event.  At first, we talked 
about gardening – how the process of gardening starts and what plants need to grow.  Then we planted some 
marigold seeds.  
As the seeds sprout and begin to develop, library visitors can watch the seedlings grow until they are ready to 
become a gift for someone special. The librarians here at LPL will take good care of the growing plants until the kids 
come back in May to transplant the baby plants into bigger pots and decorate them for Mother’s Day gifting.       

===PAGE 9===
UPCOMING EVENTS FOR APRIL: 
• APRIL 3rd - Magic Tree House Book Club and Kids Comic Club Kits available  
• APRIL 2-30th - Preschool Story Time for 4’s & 5’s 
• APRIL 3rd- In-Betweeners Book Club and LPL Kids Book Club 
• APRIL 5th- S T E M with Chris 
• APRIL 7th – Homeschoolers Family Meet-Up 
• APRIL 7-28th - Little Listeners Storytime for 0-3's 
• APRIL 10th- Art Class with Miss Julie 
• APRIL 14th – Drop-In Craft with Miss Joslyn 
• APRIL 15th -Getting Started with Home Schooling in MA- adults 
• APRIL 22nd - Legos at the Library 
• APRIL 22ND- Animal Adventures 
• APRIL 23rd – Japanese Folktales and Origami 
• APRIL 24th- Crafternoon- A Poem in Your Pocket 
• APRIL 28th - Homeschoolers Craft Corner 
 
Debbie Laffond, Children’s Services Librarian   
Joslyn Davis, Library Assistant, Children’s Area     
 
===PAGE 10===
Trustee Report 
Adult Services Department 
April 2025 
Summary of Last Month’s Programs & Events 
➢ The March Saturday morning music clinic with Jason Graham was on March 1st with 19 people. 
➢ Following the music clinic on March 1st was a reception for the new art exhibit with Trish Brown. We 
had two people join us for that event. 
➢ Creative Drawing Basics was taught by Jill Pottle on Sunday March 2nd. There were 8 students in her 
session. This was funded by an LCC grant.  
➢ The Lunenburg Business Association partnered with the library to host a downsizing seminar in the 
Wallace Room on Thursday, March 13th. There were 12 people in attendance. 
➢ The March session of craft & chill on Friday, March 14th was canceled again due to low registrations. 
➢ We were very excited to bring back The Gloucester Hornpipe and Clog Society for a St. Patrick’s Day 
concert on Sunday, March 16th. Unfortunately, a mix of weather and timing most likely led to an 
unexpectedly low turnout for the amazing concert. There were 5 people in attendance. 
➢ Our community read book discussion brunch with the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center had 16 
participants on the morning of March 17th. 
➢ An appraisal workshop was held on Saturday, March 22nd. We had 13 people visit the library to get 
their items appraised. There was some initial confusion on timing of the program, but I think those 
who attended enjoyed the event.  
➢ Edward Jones Financial visited the library on March 24th to discuss retirement planning, however we 
did not have anyone come to the program. We may try another topic at another time. 
➢ Jill Pottle came back to teach a second LCC grant funded session of Creative Drawing Basics on 
Sunday, March 31st to a full class of 10 students.  
This Month’s Programs & Events 
➢ On Saturday April 5th we had 20 people join us for another session of the music clinic series. 
➢ Our rescheduled Empathy in Grief workshop was canceled again due to low registrations. We may 
try again in the fall or create a handout of information to have at the library for patrons to take home.  
➢ Janet Winer, Abigal Perrine, and I have launched community information sessions for the public to 
learn about the upcoming 20th anniversary of the library building. We held one on April 8th that was 
not well attended but have two more booked for the end of the month. 
➢ Our craft & chill program for April was an LCC funded paint night on April 11th. We had 20 people join 
us for a fun family night out that was a huge hit! 
➢ Monthly Music Series: Irish Poetry & Song with Kate Chadbourne was on Sunday April 13th and drew 
35 attendees for another stellar performance by Kate! 
➢ The library is also the new meeting location for the local grief and healing support group that formerly 
met at the Lunenburg Adult Activity Center. Their first session will be on Monday April 14th.  
➢ A homeschooling advocacy group will present a basic information session on Tuesday April 15th. 
➢ On Wednesday April 16th we will host Jay DiPrima for a return program with Henry David Thoreau. 
This time he will be reading Thoreau’s work “Economy” in period costume. 
➢ We have a return visit from Cathy Karp for another Visible Mending Workshop on Friday April 18th.  
➢ During the school vacation week there will be another Puzzle Race on Wednesday April 23rd.  
➢ To cap off poetry month, we will be hosting an Open Mic Poetry Night on Wednesday April 30th for 
anyone to come and share their favorite poem with the community.  
===PAGE 11===
Recurring Program Update 
➢ Book clubs are doing well with excellent discussions at our monthly meetings. 
o The Baking Book Club ended after our April meeting had no attendees. We may revisit in 
the fall, but for now we will take a break from this to consider other options.  
o The 100 Books Bucket List book club meets every first Tuesday morning. We averaged 9 
attendees at each meeting last year, and we continue to get new members each month.  
o The Brighter Days book club meets every second Wednesday evening. There are now 10 
consistent members of that discussion group.  
➢ Stitchcraft knitting and crochet group attendance remains steady at 5-6 per week. And new members 
join periodically so it continues to grow! 
➢ The monthly Board Game Brunch programs happening on a Saturday morning have been 
successful. We have a manageable number of 5-8 people at each event.  
➢ Monthly Movie Nights are gaining momentum as word spreads about them. The March program had 
13 people in the audience, and they gave very positive feedback about the film. 
➢ Sew Simple Sessions have petered out with very limited engagement from patrons. We have had no 
more than two people at each session since it started in December. Due to the low attendance and 
drain on staff resources, April will be the last program in the series so we can invest in other areas.  
Virtual Program Update 
➢ These are all events sponsored and managed by other libraries. By partnering with them we receive 
a dedicated link to track viewership and engagement from our patrons. To further promote these 
events, there is a standalone brochure at the front desk advertising March and April virtual programs. 
We have not joined program offerings for May or beyond at this time. 
 
o “Irish Whiskey - History and Recs with Travis Ireland of The Friskey Whiskey Podcast” was on 
March 17th. We had 2 register but no one joined the program.  
o “Community Read: Author Talk with Sonia Purnell!” was on March 25th. We did not track stats for 
engagement from specific community groups, but there were 25 total attendees for the talk. 
o “A History of Guinness Beer with Brewery Ambassador, Mike Reardon” was on March 31st. There 
were some technical issues with the connection, but we had 4 people register and 1 joined the talk. 
o “Local Farms, MA - Produce, Meats, Dairy, Oh My!” was on April 7th. We had 4 people register and 
2 attend the event live. 
o “The Intersection of Climate Action and Romance Novels: A Panel Discussion” was on April 10th. 
We had 1 register but did not attend the program live. 
o “Tudor Queens and Ladies in Waiting: A Discussion with Authors Nicola Clark and Jade Scott” was 
on April 12th. We had 2 register, and no one attended live. 
o “The Two Nerdy History Girls Ride Again!” will be on April 14th. 
o “No More Curse! A History of the Red Sox with David Kruh” will be on April 28th. 
Programming Financial Report 
ADULT PROGRAMS AS OF 4/17/2025 
BUDGET LINE TOTAL % SPENT % ENCUMBERED % REMAINING 
TOWN $4,500 90% 7% 3% 
FRIENDS - PROGRAM $3,000 55% 34% 11% 
FRIENDS - SUPPLIES $500 89% 0% 11% 
===PAGE 12===
MUSIC SERIES $6,600 70% 23% 7% 
GRAND TOTAL $14,600 76% 16% 8% 
 
Respectfully submitted, 
Lydia Paolilli 